.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"                               1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Wed Jul 21 22:40:25 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Sat Feb 18 15:27:48 1995 by Michael Haardt
.\" Modified Sun Apr 14 11:40:50 1996 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>:
.\"   corrected description of effect on locks (thanks to
.\"   Tigran Aivazian <tigran@sco.com>).
.\" Modified Fri Jan 31 16:21:46 1997 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 2000-07-22 by Nicol醩 Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.\"   added note about close(2) not guaranteeing that data is safe on close.
.\"
.TH CLOSE 2 1996-04-14 "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME  名字
close \- 关闭一个文件描述符
.SH SYNOPSIS  总览
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int close(int " fd );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION  描述
.B close
关闭 一个 文件 描述符 , 使它 不在 指向 任何 文件 和 可以 在 新的 文件 操作 中 被 再次 使用.
任何 与 此 文件 相关联 的 以及 程序 所 拥有 的 锁 , 都 会 被 删除 (忽略 那些 持有 锁 的 文件描述符)
.PP
假如
.I fd
是 最后 一个 文件描述符 与此 资源 相 关联 , 则 这个 资源 将 被 释放.
若此 描述符 是 最后 一个 引用 到 此 文件 上 的 , 则 文件 将 使用
.BR unlink (2)
删除.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"  返回值
.B close
返回 0 表示 成功 , 或者 -1 表示 有 错误 发生 .
.SH ERRORS  错误信息
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
不是 一个 有效 的 已 被 打开 的 文件 的 描述符
.TP
.B EINTR
The
.BR close ()
调用 被 一 信号 中断.
.TP
.B EIO
I/O 有 错误 发生
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVr4, SVID, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3.  SVr4 documents an additional
ENOLINK error condition.
.SH NOTES  注意
通常 不检测 返回值 , 除了 发生 严重 的 程序 错误.  文件系统  使用 了
"write-behind" 的 技术 提高 了 执行
.BR write (2)
时 的 性能 . 即使 还 没有 被 写 , 写操作 也会 成功 . 错误 信息 在 写操作 以后
报告 , 但是 这 保证 在 关闭 文件 时 报告 . 在 关闭 文件 时 不检测 返回值 可能
会 导致 数据 的 丢失 . 这 一点 在 NFS 和 磁盘 配额 上 比较 明显.
.PP
由于 内核 会 延迟 写 , 所以 就算 成功 关闭 一个 文件 不能 保证 数据 被 成功 的 写到 磁盘 上.
当 文件流 关闭 时 , 对 文件系统 来说 一般 不去 刷新 缓冲区 . 如果 你 要 保证 数据 写入
磁盘 等 物理 存贮器 中
就 使用 fsync(2) 或 sync(2), 他们 会 做到 你想做的 (对于 这一点 要 依赖于 磁盘 设备).
.SH "SEE ALSO"  参考
.BR open (2),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR shutdown (2),
.BR unlink (2),
.BR fclose (3)

.SH [中文维护]
	Daniel (badlong@163.com)
.SH [中文更新]
	2002/1/10
.SH [说明]
	若 发现 错误 或 不足 请 与 我 联系.