.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Thu May 20 20:45:48 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:11:07 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Nov 21 10:49:38 1993 by Michael Haardt
.\" Modified Sun Feb 26 15:09:15 1995 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH SHELLS 5 "November 21, 1993" "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME [命令名]
shells \- 有效登录 shell 的路径名
.SH 描述
.B /etc/shells 
是一个文本文件，其中包含有效登录 shell 的路径全名。
.BR chsh(1) 
需要参考这个文件，并且其他程序也可以查询该文件。
有些程序从这个文件判断用户是不是标准用户。比如: ftp 守护进程
一般不会允许那些所用的 shell 没有在该文件中注明用户访问。
.SH 实例
.B /etc/shells
可能包含以下路径: 
.sp
.RS
.BR /bin/sh 
.br
.B /bin/csh 
.RE     
.SH 相关文件
.I /etc/shells   
.SH 又见
.BR chsh(1), getusershell(3)   
.SH "[中文版维护人]"
.B Redcandle <redcandle51@chinaren.com >
.SH "[中文版最新更新]"
.B 2000.10.29
.SH "《中国linux论坛man手册页翻译计划》:"
.BI http://cmpp.linuxforum.net
