.\" (c) 2000 by Michael Kerrisk (michael.kerrisk@gmx.net)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein. 
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Created, 14 Dec 2000 by Michael Kerrisk
.\"
.TH DIRNAME 3  2000-12-14 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
dirname, basename \- 分析路径成员

.SH "总览 (SYNOPSIS)"
.nf
.B #include <libgen.h>
.sp
.BI "char *dirname(char " "*path" ");"
.BI "char *basename(char " "*path" ");"
.fi

.SH "描述 (DESCRIPTION)"
.B dirname
和
.B basename
把 以 null 结尾 的 路径名 分解为 目录 和 文件名. 一般情况下, 
.B dirname
返回 路径名 的 前面部分, 直到 (但不包括) 最后一个 '/', 而
.B basename
则 返回 最后一个 '/' 后面 的 内容. 如果 路径名 以 '/' 结尾, 
该 '/' 被认为 不是 路径名 的 一部分.

.PP
如果 路径名
.I path
不包含 斜杠 '/', 
.B dirname
返回 字符串 ".", 而
.B basename
返回
.IR path 
的 副本. 如果 路径名
.I path
是 "/", 则
.B dirname
和
.B basename
均 返回 "/". 如果 路径名
.I path
是 NULL 指针 或 指向 空串, 则
.B dirname
和
.B basename
均 返回 ".".
.PP
把
.BR dirname 
返回的 字符串, "/", 和
.B basename
返回的 字符串 连接 起来, 能够 产生 一个 完整 的 路径名.
.PP
无论
.B dirname
还是
.B basename
都 有可能 更改 
.IR path
的 内容, 因此 如果 需要 保护 原有 路径名, 应该 传送 副本 作为 参数. 此外,
.B dirname
和
.B basename
返回的 指针 可能 指向 一块 静态分配 的 内存, 会被 下次 调用 覆盖.
.PP
下面 的 例子 (摘自 SUSv2) 展示了 对于 不同的 路径名,
.B dirname
和
.B basename
返回 的 字符串:
.sp
.nf
.B 
path  		dirname		basename
"/usr/lib"	"/usr"		"lib"
"/usr/"		"/"  		"usr"
"usr"		"."  		"usr"
"/"  		"/"  		"/"
"."  		"."  		"."
".."  		"."  		".."
.fi

.SH "示例 (EXAMPLE)"
.nf
char *dirc, *basec, *bname, *dname;
char *path = "/etc/passwd";

dirc = strdup(path);
basec = strdup(path);
dname = dirname(dirc);
bname = basename(basec);
printf("dirname=%s, basename=%s\\n", dname, bname);
free(dirc);
free(basec);
.fi

.SH "返回值 (RETURN VALUE)"
.B dirname
和
.B basename
均 返回 以 null 结尾的 字符串 的 指针.

.SH "BUGS"
在 glibc 的 各个 版本 中, 直到 (并包括) 2.2.1,
.B dirname
无法 正确 处理 以 '/' 字符 结尾 的 路径名. 如果 参数 是 NULL 指针,
他 还会 产生 段冲突 (segmentation violation).

.SH "遵循 (CONFORMING TO)"
SUSv2

.SH "另见 (SEE ALSO)"
.BR dirname (1),
.BR basename (1)

.SH "[中文版维护人]"
.B 徐明 <xuming@users.sourceforge.net>
.SH "[中文版最新更新]"
.BR 2003/05/13
.SH "《中国Linux论坛man手册页翻译计划》"
.BI http://cmpp.linuxforum.net
