.TH CBDSQR 3 "15 June 2000" "LAPACK version 3.0"
.SH NAME
CBDSQR \- 计算一个实 (real) NxN 上/下 (upper/lower) 三角 (bidiagonal) 矩阵 B 的单值分解 (singular value decomposition (SVD))
.SH "总览 SYNOPSIS"
.TP 19
SUBROUTINE CBDSQR(
UPLO, N, NCVT, NRU, NCC, D, E, VT, LDVT, U,
LDU, C, LDC, RWORK, INFO )
.TP 19
.ti +4
CHARACTER
UPLO
.TP 19
.ti +4
INTEGER
INFO, LDC, LDU, LDVT, N, NCC, NCVT, NRU
.TP 19
.ti +4
REAL
D( * ), E( * ), RWORK( * )
.TP 19
.ti +4
COMPLEX
C( LDC, * ), U( LDU, * ), VT( LDVT, * )
.SH PURPOSE
CBDSQR computes the singular value decomposition (SVD) of a real N-by-N (upper or lower) bidiagonal matrix B: B = Q * S * P' (P' denotes the transpose of P), where S is a diagonal matrix with
non-negative diagonal elements (the singular values of B), and Q
and P are orthogonal matrices.
.br

The routine computes S, and optionally computes U * Q, P' * VT,
or Q' * C, for given complex input matrices U, VT, and C.

See "Computing  Small Singular Values of Bidiagonal Matrices With
Guaranteed High Relative Accuracy," by J. Demmel and W. Kahan,
LAPACK Working Note #3 (or SIAM J. Sci. Statist. Comput. vol. 11,
no. 5, pp. 873-912, Sept 1990) and
.br
"Accurate singular values and differential qd algorithms," by
B. Parlett and V. Fernando, Technical Report CPAM-554, Mathematics
Department, University of California at Berkeley, July 1992
for a detailed description of the algorithm.
.br

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 8
UPLO    (input) CHARACTER*1
= 'U':  B is upper bidiagonal;
.br
= 'L':  B is lower bidiagonal.
.TP 8
N       (input) INTEGER
The order of the matrix B.  N >= 0.
.TP 8
NCVT    (input) INTEGER
The number of columns of the matrix VT. NCVT >= 0.
.TP 8
NRU     (input) INTEGER
The number of rows of the matrix U. NRU >= 0.
.TP 8
NCC     (input) INTEGER
The number of columns of the matrix C. NCC >= 0.
.TP 8
D       (input/output) REAL array, dimension (N)
On entry, the n diagonal elements of the bidiagonal matrix B.
On exit, if INFO=0, the singular values of B in decreasing
order.
.TP 8
E       (input/output) REAL array, dimension (N)
On entry, the elements of E contain the
offdiagonal elements of of the bidiagonal matrix whose SVD
is desired. On normal exit (INFO = 0), E is destroyed.
If the algorithm does not converge (INFO > 0), D and E
will contain the diagonal and superdiagonal elements of a
bidiagonal matrix orthogonally equivalent to the one given
as input. E(N) is used for workspace.
.TP 8
VT      (input/output) COMPLEX array, dimension (LDVT, NCVT)
On entry, an N-by-NCVT matrix VT.
On exit, VT is overwritten by P' * VT.
VT is not referenced if NCVT = 0.
.TP 8
LDVT    (input) INTEGER
The leading dimension of the array VT.
LDVT >= max(1,N) if NCVT > 0; LDVT >= 1 if NCVT = 0.
.TP 8
U       (input/output) COMPLEX array, dimension (LDU, N)
On entry, an NRU-by-N matrix U.
On exit, U is overwritten by U * Q.
U is not referenced if NRU = 0.
.TP 8
LDU     (input) INTEGER
The leading dimension of the array U.  LDU >= max(1,NRU).
.TP 8
C       (input/output) COMPLEX array, dimension (LDC, NCC)
On entry, an N-by-NCC matrix C.
On exit, C is overwritten by Q' * C.
C is not referenced if NCC = 0.
.TP 8
LDC     (input) INTEGER
The leading dimension of the array C.
LDC >= max(1,N) if NCC > 0; LDC >=1 if NCC = 0.
.TP 8
RWORK   (workspace) REAL array, dimension (4*N)
.TP 8
INFO    (output) INTEGER
= 0:  successful exit
.br
< 0:  If INFO = -i, the i-th argument had an illegal value
.br
> 0:  the algorithm did not converge; D and E contain the
elements of a bidiagonal matrix which is orthogonally
similar to the input matrix B;  if INFO = i, i
elements of E have not converged to zero.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 8
TOLMUL  REAL, default = max(10,min(100,EPS**(-1/8)))
TOLMUL controls the convergence criterion of the QR loop.
If it is positive, TOLMUL*EPS is the desired relative
precision in the computed singular values.
If it is negative, abs(TOLMUL*EPS*sigma_max) is the
desired absolute accuracy in the computed singular
values (corresponds to relative accuracy
abs(TOLMUL*EPS) in the largest singular value.
abs(TOLMUL) should be between 1 and 1/EPS, and preferably
between 10 (for fast convergence) and .1/EPS
(for there to be some accuracy in the results).
Default is to lose at either one eighth or 2 of the
available decimal digits in each computed singular value
(whichever is smaller).
.TP 8
MAXITR  INTEGER, default = 6
MAXITR controls the maximum number of passes of the
algorithm through its inner loop. The algorithms stops
(and so fails to converge) if the number of passes
through the inner loop exceeds MAXITR*N**2.

.SH "[中文版维护人]"
.B 姓名 <email>
.SH "[中文版最新更新]"
.B yyyy.mm.dd
.SH "《中国linux论坛man手册页翻译计划》:"
.BI http://cmpp.linuxforum.net 
