.\" Copyright (c) 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)exec.3	6.4 (Berkeley) 4/19/91
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 11:12:48 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Updated more for Linux, Tue Jul 15 11:54:18 1997, pacman@cqc.com
.\"
.TH EXEC 3  1993-11-29 "BSD MANPAGE" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
execl, execlp, execle, execv, execvp \- 执行某个文件

.SH "总览 (SYNOPSIS)"
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B extern char **environ;
.sp
.BI "int execl( const char *" path ", const char *" arg ", ...);
.br
.BI "int execlp( const char *" file ", const char *" arg ", ...);
.br
.BI "int execle( const char *" path ", const char *" arg
.BI ", ..., char * const " envp "[]);"
.br
.BI "int execv( const char *" path ", char *const " argv "[]);"
.br
.BI "int execvp( const char *" file ", char *const " argv "[]);"

.SH "描述 (DESCRIPTION)"
.B exec
系列 函数 用 新的 进程 映象 置换 当前的 进程 映象. 
本 手册页 描述的 这些 函数 实际上 是 对
.BR execve (2)
函数 的 前端(front-end) 包装. (关于 当前进程 的 置换 详见 
.B execve
的 手册页.)
.PP
这些 函数 的 第一个 参数 是 待执行 程序 的 路径名(文件名).
.PP
在 函数
.BR execl ,
.BR execlp ,
和
.B execle
中, 
.I "const char *arg"
以及 省略号 代表 的 参数 可被 视为
.IR arg0 ,
.IR arg1 ,
\&...,
.IR argn .
他们 合起来 描述了 指向 null 结尾的 字符串 的 指针 列表, 即 执行程序 的
参数列表. 作为 约定, 第一个 arg 参数 应该 指向 执行程序名 自身. 参数列表
.I 必须
用
.B NULL
指针 结束!
.PP
.B execv
和
.B execvp
函数 提供 指向 null 结尾的 字符串 的 指针数组 作为 新程序 的 参数列表.
作为 约定, 指针数组 中 第一个 元素 应该 指向 执行程序名 自身. 指针数组
.I 必须
用
.B NULL
指针 结束!
.PP
.B execle
函数 同时 说明了 执行进程 的 环境(environment), 他 在
.B NULL
指针 后面 要求 一个 附加参数, NULL 指针 用于 结束 参数列表, 或者说,
argv 数组. 这个 附加参数 是 指向 null 结尾的 字符串 的 指针数组, 他
.I 必须
用
.B NULL
指针 结束! 其他 函数 从 当前进程 的
.I environ
外部变量 中 获取 新进程 的 环境.
.PP
某些 函数 有 特殊的 语义.
.PP
如果 提供的 文件名 中 不包含 斜杠符(/), 函数
.B execlp
和
.B execvp
将 同 shell 一样 搜索 执行文件. 搜索路径 由 环境变量
.B PATH
指定. 如果 该 变量 不存在, 则 使用 缺省路径 ``:/bin:/usr/bin''.
另外, 某些 错误 要 特殊处理.
.PP
如果 对 某个 文件 的 访问 遭到 拒绝 (
.B execve
返回
.BR EACCES ),
这些 函数 将 在 搜索路径 中 继续 寻找. 如果 没有 找到 符合的 文件,
他们 返回时 把
.I errno
置为
.BR EACCES .
.PP
如果 无法 识别 文件首部 (
.B execve
返回
.BR ENOEXEC ),
这些 函数 将 以 文件名 作为 第一个 参数 调用 shell.
(如果 这个 尝试 失败 就 不再 进行 搜索 了.)

.SH "返回值 (RETURN VALUE)"
任何
.B exec
函数 返回 均 表明 发生了 错误. 返回值 是 \-1, 全局变量
.I errno
指出 错误类型.

.SH "文件 (FILE)"
.I /bin/sh

.SH "错误 (ERROR)"
这些 函数 均可能 失败, 
.I errno
被 置为 库函数
.BR execve (2)
设置的 各种 错误类型.

.SH "另见 (SEE ALSO)"
.BR sh (1),
.BR execve (2),
.BR fork (2),
.BR environ (5),
.BR ptrace (2)

.SH "兼容性 (COMPATIBILITY)"
在 某些 其他系统 中, 缺省路径 (当 环境变量 \fBPATH\fR 不存在)
把 当前目录 列在
.I /bin
和
.IR /usr/bin 
后面, 这是 为了 防止 特洛伊木马. Linux 在这儿 采取了 传统的 
"当前目录优先" 缺省路径.
.PP
当 试图 执行 程序 并且 发生 错误 的 时候,  
.B execlp
和
.B execvp
的 行为 是 历史 习惯, 但是 没有 进入 正式文档, 也没有 被
POSIX 标准 说明. BSD (可能 还有 其他 系统) 中 进程 自动 进入 睡眠, 如果
发生 ETXTBSY, 他们 就 重试. 而 Linux 视此为 严重错误, 并且 立即 返回.
.PP
传统的 做法中, 函数
.B execlp
和
.B execvp
忽略 所有 错误, 除了 上述的 错误, 
.B ENOMEM
和
.BR E2BIG .
如果 发生 这三类 错误, 他们 就 返回. 而 现在的 做法是, 不仅仅 上述的 错误,
任何 错误 均导致 函数 返回.

.SH "遵循 (CONFORMING TO)"
.BR execl ,
.BR execv ,
.BR execle ,
.B execlp
和
.B execvp
遵循
IEEE Std1003.1-88 (``POSIX.1'').

.SH "[中文版维护人]"
.B 徐明 <xuming@users.sourceforge.net>
.SH "[中文版最新更新]"
.BR 2003/05/13
.SH "《中国Linux论坛man手册页翻译计划》"
.BI http://cmpp.linuxforum.net
