.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fclose.3	6.7 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 15:19:14 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\"
.\" Modified 2000-07-22 by Nicol??s Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.\"
.TH FCLOSE 3  1993-11-29 "BSD MANPAGE" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
fclose \- 关闭流
.SH "SYNOPSIS 总览"
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int fclose(FILE *" stream );
.SH "DESCRIPTION 描述"
函数
.B fclose
将名为
.I stream
的流与它底层关联的文件或功能集合断开。如果流曾用作输出，任何缓冲的数据都将首先被写入，使用
.BR fflush (3)
。
.SH "RETURN VALUE 返回值"
成功执行返回 0，否则返回
.B EOF
并设置全局变量
.I errno
来指示错误发生。任何一种情况下，对流再进行存取 (包括再次调用
.BR fclose "())"
都会带来未定义的结果。
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I stream
底层的文件描述符是无效的。
.\"  This error cannot occur unless you are mixing ANSI C stdio operations and
.\"  low-level file operations on the same stream. If you do get this error,
.\"  you must have closed the stream's low-level file descriptor using
.\"  something like close(fileno(fp)).
.PP
函数
.B fclose
也可能失败并置
.I errno
为
.BR close (2),
.BR write (2)
或
.BR fflush (3)
指定的值。
.SH "NOTES 要点"
注意
.B fclose
仅仅刷新用户空间的由 C 库提供的缓冲。要保证数据被物理地存储到磁盘上，必须也刷新内核缓冲。例如，使用
.BR sync (2)
或
.BR fsync (2).
.SH "CONFORMING TO 标准参考"
函数
.B fclose
遵循 ANSI X3.159-1989 (``ANSI C'') 标准。
.SH "SEE ALSO 参见"
.BR close (2),
.BR fcloseall (3),
.BR fflush (3),
.BR fopen (3),
.BR setbuf (3)
