.\" Copyright (C) 2001 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH UNLOCKED_STDIO 3  2001-10-18 "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
*_unlocked \- 非锁定的标准输入输出函数
.SH "SYNOPSIS 总览"
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int getc_unlocked(FILE *" stream );
.BI "int getchar_unlocked(void);"
.BI "int putc_unlocked(int " c ", FILE *" stream );
.BI "int putchar_unlocked(int " c );
.sp
.BR "#define _BSD_SOURCE" " /* or _SVID_SOURCE or _GNU_SOURCE */
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "void clearerr_unlocked(FILE *" stream );
.BI "int feof_unlocked(FILE *" stream );
.BI "int ferror_unlocked(FILE *" stream );
.BI "int fileno_unlocked(FILE *" stream );
.BI "int fflush_unlocked(FILE *" stream );
.BI "int fgetc_unlocked(FILE *" stream );
.BI "int fputc_unlocked(int " c ", FILE *" stream );
.BI "size_t fread_unlocked(void *" ptr ", size_t " size ", size_t " n ,
.BI "  FILE *" stream );
.BI "size_t fwrite_unlocked(const void *" ptr ", size_t " size ", size_t " n ,
.BI "  FILE *" stream );
.sp
.B #define _GNU_SOURCE
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "char *fgets_unlocked(char *" s ", int " n ", FILE *" stream );
.BI "int fputs_unlocked(const char *" s ", FILE *" stream );
.sp
.B #define _GNU_SOURCE
.B #include <wchar.h>
.sp
.BI "wint_t getwc_unlocked(FILE *" stream );
.BI "wint_t getwchar_unlocked(void);"
.BI "wint_t fgetwc_unlocked(FILE *" stream );
.BI "wint_t fputwc_unlocked(wchar_t " wc ", FILE *" stream );
.BI "wint_t putwc_unlocked(wchar_t " wc ", FILE *" stream );
.BI "wint_t putwchar_unlocked(wchar_t " wc );
.BI "wchar_t *fgetws_unlocked(wchar_t *" ws ", int " n ", FILE *" stream );
.BI "int fputws_unlocked(const wchar_t *" ws ", FILE *" stream );
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION 描述"
这些函数中每一个都与它没有 `_unlocked` 后缀的对应版本行为一致，但是它们不使用锁定 (它们不自行设置锁定，也不判断是否有其他函数设置的锁定) ，因此是非线程安全的。参见
.BR flockfile (3)
。
.SH "CONFORMING TO 标准参考"
下面四个函数 \fIgetc_unlocked\fP(), \fIgetchar_unlocked\fP(),
\fIputc_unlocked\fP(), \fIputchar_unlocked\fP() 包含在 POSIX.1 中。非标准的
.BR *_unlocked()
变种在少数 Unix 系统中出现，较新的 glibc 中也提供了它们。
.\" E.g., in HPUX 10.0. In HPUX 10.30 they are called obsolescent, and
.\" moved to a compatibility library.
.\" Available in HPUX 10.0: clearerr_unlocked, fclose_unlocked,
.\" feof_unlocked, ferror_unlocked, fflush_unlocked, fgets_unlocked,
.\" fgetwc_unlocked, fgetws_unlocked, fileno_unlocked, fputs_unlocked,
.\" fputwc_unlocked, fputws_unlocked, fread_unlocked, fseek_unlocked,
.\" ftell_unlocked, fwrite_unlocked, getc_unlocked, getchar_unlocked,
.\" getw_unlocked, getwc_unlocked, getwchar_unlocked, putc_unlocked,
.\" putchar_unlocked, puts_unlocked, putws_unlocked, putw_unlocked,
.\" putwc_unlocked, putwchar_unlocked, rewind_unlocked, setvbuf_unlocked,
.\" ungetc_unlocked, ungetwc_unlocked.
它们不应当被使用。
.SH "SEE ALSO 参见"
.BR flockfile (3)
