.ig \"-*- nroff -*-
Copyright (C) 2000 Stein Gjoen

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.TH "LDP Introduction" 7 2001-11-15 "LDP"
.SH NAME
LDP \- Linux文档工程的简介,包括帮助,向导和文档 
.SH "总览 SYNOPSIS"
Linux文档工程(LDP)为Linux社区提供多种自由文档资源,包括向导 (guide)，常见问答 (FAQ)，入门 (HOWTO) 以及手册页 (man-pages). 

.SH "作者 AUTHORS"
独立的作者维护着LDP档案中的不同的文档,
他们的名字列在了每一个入门(HOWTO)的开头.
如果你对于某个文档有任何问题或者意见,我们鼓励你直接和作者联系。 

.SH "网页 WEB PAGES"
LDP有自己专门的网站，
同时还有很多不同的翻译工程，可以从LDP的主网站
.RS
\fBhttp://www\&.tldp\&.org/\fP
.RE
(或许你想把它加入书签) 链接过去.

.SH "手册页 MAN PAGES"
手册页的状态信息以及翻译情况的网页位于
.RS
\fBhttp://www\&.win\&.tue\&.nl/~aeb/linux/man/\fP
.RE

.SH "邮件列表 MAILING LISTS"
LDP有一系列的专门的邮件列表,绝大多数是面向文档作者的： 
.PP
.PD 0
.TP
.PD
\fB<ldp\-announce@lists\&.tldp\&.org>\fP
LDP的通告 
.TP
\fB<ldp\-discuss@lists\&.tldp\&.org>\fP
对于LDP的一般的讨论 
.PP
要加入这些列表，可以发一封信体含有 "subscribe" 的信相应地
给 \fB<ldp\-announce\-request@lists\&.tldp\&.org>\fP
或者 \fB<ldp\-discuss\-request@lists\&.tldp\&.org>\fP.
这些邮件列表同时也在tldp\&.org站点有存档. 

.SH "文件 FILES"
大多数(Linux)发行版在安装的时候包含了入门(HOWTOs)和简单入门(mini-HOWTOS)在相应目录下: 
.PD 0
.TP
\fB/usr/doc/\fP                   (文档的旧位置)
.TP
\fB/usr/share/doc/\fP             (文档的新位置)
.TP
\fB/usr/share/doc/HOWTO/\fP       (HOWTO 文件)
.TP
\fB/usr/share/doc/HOWTO/mini/\fP  (mini-HOWTO 文件)
.PD
.SH "参见 SEE ALSO"
.BR man (1),
.BR xman (1x),
.BR info (1)
.PP
\fBinfo\fP 信息页，使用
.BR emacs (1)
或
.BR info (1)
来阅读。

.SH "[中文版维护人]"
.B 严亚勤 <tinyfat@263.net>
.SH "[中文版最新更新]"
.B 2002.04.26
.SH "《中国linux论坛man手册翻译计划》:"
.BI http://cmpp.linuxforum.net 
