.TH MAILADDR 7 1995-06-24 linux "Linux User's Manual" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1987 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
.\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
.\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
.\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
.\" by the University of California, Berkeley.  The name of the
.\" University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)mailaddr.7	6.5 (Berkeley) 2/14/89
.\"
.\" Extensively rewritten by Arnt Gulbrandsen <agulbra@troll.no>.  My
.\" changes are placed under the same copyright as the original BSD page.
.\"
.\" fool hilith19: "
.UC 5
.SH NAME
mailaddr \- mail addressing description
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page gives a brief introduction to SMTP mail addresses, as
used on the Internet.  These addresses are in the general format
.PP
	user@domain
.PP
where a domain is a hierarchical dot separated list of subdomains.  For
example, the addresses
.PP
	eric@monet.berkeley.edu
.br
	Eric Allman <eric@monet.berkeley.edu>
.br
	eric@monet.berkeley.edu (Eric Allman)
.PP
are valid forms of the same address.
.PP
The domain part (``monet.berkeley.edu'') may be the name of an internet
host, or it may be a logical mail address.  The domain part is not
case sensitive.
.PP
The local part (``eric'') is often a user name, but its meaning is
defined by the local software.  It can be case sensitive, but usually
isn't.  If you see a local-part that looks like garbage, it is usually
because of a gateway between an internal e-mail system and the net,
here are some examples:
.PP
	"surname/admd=telemail/c=us/o=hp/prmd=hp"@some.where
	USER%SOMETHING@some.where
	machine!machine!name@some.where
	I2461572@some.where
.PP
(These are, respectively, an X.400 gateway, a gateway to an arbitrary
inernal mail system that lacks proper internet support, an UUCP
gateway, and the last one is just boring username policy.)
.PP
The real-name part (``Eric Allman'') can either be placed first, outside
<>, or last, inside ().  (Strictly speaking the two aren't the same,
but the difference is outside the scope of this page.)  The name may
have to be quoted using "" if it contains certain characters, most
commonly ``.'':
.PP
	"Eric P. Allman" <eric@monet.berkeley.edu>
.SS Abbreviation.
.PP
Many mail systems let users abbreviate the domain name.  For instance,
users at berkeley.edu may get away with ``eric@monet'' to send mail to
Eric Allman. \fIThis behavior is deprecated.\fP
.SS Route-addrs.
.PP
Under some circumstances it may be necessary to route a message
through several hosts to get it to the final destination.  Normally
this happens automatically and invisibly, but sometimes not,
particularly with old and broken software.  Addresses which show these
relays are termed ``route-addrs.''  These use the syntax:
.PP
	<@hosta,@hostb:user@hostc>
.PP
This specifies that the message should be sent to hosta, from there to
hostb, and finally to hostc.  Some hosts disregard route-addrs and
send directly to hostc.
.PP
Route-addrs occur frequently on return addresses, since these are generally
augmented by the software at each host.  It is generally possible to ignore
all but the ``user@hostc'' part of the address to determine the actual
sender.
.SS Postmaster.
.PP
Every site is required to have a user or user alias designated
``postmaster'' to which problems with the mail system may be
addressed.  The ``postmaster'' address is not case sensitive.
.SS "FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS"
rtfm.mit.edu and many mirrors store a collection of FAQs.  Please find
and use a nearby FAQ archive; there are dozens or hundreds around the
world.
.I mail/inter-network-guide
explains how to send mail between many different networks.
.I mail/country-codes
lists the top level domains (e.g. ``no'' is Norway and ``ea'' is Eritrea).
.I mail/college-email/part*
gives some useful tips on how to locate e-mail addresses.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/aliases
.br
.I ~/.forward
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR binmail (1),
.BR mail (1),
.BR mconnect (1),
.BR forward (5),
.BR aliases (5),
.BR sendmail (8),
.BR vrfy (8),
RFC822 (Standard for the Format of Arpa Internet Text Messages).
