.\" Copyright (C) 1996 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" See section COPYING below.
.TH zic2xpm 6 "11 Apr 1996" "zic2xpm 2.0" "Games"
.SH NAME
zic2xpm \- 将 ZIICS 象棋片段 (chess pieces) 转换为 XBoard (XPM/XIM) 片段的工具。
.SH "总览 SYNOPSIS"
zic2xpm
.B file1 [file2 ...]
.SH "描述"
.B zic2xpm
将一个或多个 ZIICS 片段文件转换为 XBoard 可用的格式。
如果你给出一个以上的文件名，小心同样大小的多个文件 (? sets) 不能共存于同一目录下。
不同大小的多个文件可以共存于单一目录下。
.SH "范例 EXAMPLE"
如果你想新建一个目录，包含设定 (? sets) SET2.V32, SET2.V40, SET2.V50, 和 SET2.V56, 
它们都在 ~/ziics 目录中，你可以这样：

.nf
      mkdir Sets
      cd Sets
      zic2xpm ~/ziics/SET2.*
.fi

然后你可以这样运行 XBoard：

.nf
     xboard -pixmap Sets
.fi
.SH BUGS
请向
.B frankm@hiwaay.net
报告它的任何 bug。
.SH "参见 SEE ALSO"
.BR
.BR xboard ( 6 ).
.SH "作者 AUTHOR"
Frank McIngvale (frankm@hiwaay.net)
.SH "版权所有 COPYING"
Copyright (C) 1996 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.PP
NOTICE: The piece images distributed with ZIICS are
copyrighted works of their original creators.  Images 
converted with zic2xpm may not be redistributed without
the permission of the copyright holders.  Do not contact
the authors of zic2xpm or of ZIICS itself to request
permission. 
.PP
NOTICE:  The format of the ZIICS piece file was gleaned from
SHOWSETS.PAS, a part of ZIICS.  Thanks to Andy McFarland
(Zek on ICC) for making this source available!  ZIICS is a 
completely separate and copyrighted work of Andy
McFarland.  Use and distribution of ZIICS falls under the
ZIICS license, NOT the GNU General Public License.
.PP
NOTICE: The format of the VGA imageblocks was determined
by experimentation, and without access to any
of Borland Inc.'s BGI library source code.
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.  However, the above notices
MUST BE RETAINED in any copy that you redistribute or modify.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111 USA.

.SH "[中文版维护人]"
.B bbbush <bbbush@163.com>
.br
我怀疑还有没有人会看这篇文档
.SH "[中文版最新更新]"
.B 2003.11.22
.SH "《中国linux论坛man手册页翻译计划》:"
.BI http://cmpp.linuxforum.net 
