.\" Copyright (C) 1996 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" See section COPYING below.
.TH zic2xpm 6 "11 Apr 1996" "zic2xpm 2.0" "Games"
.SH NAME
zic2xpm \- Tool to convert ZIICS chess pieces into XBoard (XPM/XIM) pieces.
.SH SYNOPSIS
zic2xpm
.B file1 [file2 ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B zic2xpm
converts one or more ZIICS piece files into a format that can
be used by XBoard.
If you give more than one filename, be aware that multiple sets
of the same size cannot exist in one directory. Multiple sets
of different sizes can exist in a single directory.
.SH EXAMPLE
If you wanted to make a directory containing the sets SET2.V32,
SET2.V40, SET2.V50, and SET2.V56, all of which are located in
~/ziics, you could do:

.nf
      mkdir Sets
      cd Sets
      zic2xpm ~/ziics/SET2.*
.fi

You would then run XBoard like this:

.nf
     xboard -pixmap Sets
.fi
.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs to
.B frankm@hiwaay.net
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR
.BR xboard ( 6 ).
.SH AUTHOR
Frank McIngvale (frankm@hiwaay.net)
.SH COPYING
Copyright (C) 1996 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.PP
NOTICE: The piece images distributed with ZIICS are
copyrighted works of their original creators.  Images 
converted with zic2xpm may not be redistributed without
the permission of the copyright holders.  Do not contact
the authors of zic2xpm or of ZIICS itself to request
permission. 
.PP
NOTICE:  The format of the ZIICS piece file was gleaned from
SHOWSETS.PAS, a part of ZIICS.  Thanks to Andy McFarland
(Zek on ICC) for making this source available!  ZIICS is a 
completely separate and copyrighted work of Andy
McFarland.  Use and distribution of ZIICS falls under the
ZIICS license, NOT the GNU General Public License.
.PP
NOTICE: The format of the VGA imageblocks was determined
by experimentation, and without access to any
of Borland Inc.'s BGI library source code.
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.  However, the above notices
MUST BE RETAINED in any copy that you redistribute or modify.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111 USA.
