.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Andries Brouwer
.\" This page is somewhat derived from a page that was
.\" (c) 1980, 1989, 1991 The Regents of the University of California
.\" and had been heavily modified by Rik Faith and myself.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.TH UMOUNT 8 "26 July 1997" "Linux 2.0" "Linux 程序员手册"
.SH "NAME 名字"
umount \- 卸载文件系统
.SH 总览
.BI "umount [\-hV]"
.LP
.BI "umount -a [\-nrv] [\-t " vfstype ]
.br
.BI "umount [\-nrv] " "device " | " dir " [...]
.SH 描述
.B umount
可以卸除当前挂载在文件层次目录中的文件系统。
文件系统形式可以是以它所在的目录的形式指定，
也可以是以它所在的特殊设备的形式来指定。

请注意当文件系统正处于使用状态时，不能进行卸载操作，
必须等工作完成后才能进行卸除。例如，如果在当前文件系统中
有打开的文件或某些进程正工作在该文件系统的某个目录下时，
或者是它上面的一个交换文件正在使用。
干涉的进程甚至可以是
.B umount
本身 - 它打开 libc，而随后 libc 可能会打开本地文件．

.B umount
命令的选项：
.TP
.B \-V
打印版本信息并退出。
.TP
.B \-h
显示帮助信息并退出。
.TP
.B \-v
以冗长模式运行。
.TP
.B \-n
在卸载后不将相应信息写入
.IR /etc/mtab 
文件。
.TP
.B \-r
如果卸载失败，试图以只读方式进行重新挂载。
.TP
.B \-a
卸载所有在
.I /etc/mtab
文件中描述的文件系统。（在
.B umount
版本或以后的版本中，不会卸载
.I proc
文件系统）
.TP
.BI \-t " vfstype"
只卸载指定类型的文件系统。如果要一次指定多个文件系统，
可以用逗号分隔。如在指定文件系统前加
.B no
，则可卸载除些文件系统以外的其它文件系统。
.TP
.B \-f
强制卸载（比如不可达的 NFS ）。
（此选项须在高于 2.1.116 的版本上使用）

.SH "环路设备"
如果在
.IR /etc/mtab
文件中存在有 `loop=...' 这样的参数，
.B umount
命令将释放与挂载相关联的环路设备．
任何挂起的环路设备可以用 `losetup -d' 命令来释放。
参阅
.BR losetup (8)．


.SH 相关文件
.I /etc/mtab
已挂载文件系统的清单。

.SH "另见"
.BR umount (2),
.BR mount (8),
.BR losetup (8).

.SH 历史
.B umount
命令最早出现在版本 6 的 AT&T UNIX.

.SH "[中文版维护人]"
.B 所罗门 <solomen@email.com.cn>
.SH "[中文版最新更新]"
.B Nov 20 2000
.SH "《中国linux论坛man手册页翻译计划》:"
.BI http://cmpp.linuxforum.net 
