.TH EDQUOTA 8
.SH NAME
edquota \- edit user quotas
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B edquota
[
.B \-p
.I protoname
] [
.BR \-u \ |
.B \-g
] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-F
.I format-name
] [
.B \-f
.I filesystem
]
.IR username .\|.\|.
.LP
.B edquota
[
.BR \-u \ |
.B \-g
] [
.B \-F
.I format-name
] [
.B \-f
.I filesystem
]
.B \-t
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "edquota command"  ""  "\fLedquota\fP \(em edit user quotas"
.IX  edit "user quotas \(em \fLedquota\fP"
.IX  "user quotas"  "edquota command"  ""  "\fLedquota\fP \(em edit user quotas"
.IX  "disk quotas"  "edquota command"  ""  "\fLedquota\fP \(em edit user quotas"
.IX  "quotas"  "edquota command"  ""  "\fLedquota\fP \(em edit user quotas"
.IX  "filesystem"  "edquota command"  ""  "\fLedquota\fP \(em edit user quotas"
.B edquota
is a quota editor.  One or more users or groups may be specified on the command
line.  For each user or group a temporary file is created with an
.SM ASCII
representation of the current disk quotas for that user or group and an editor
is then invoked on the file.  The quotas may then be modified, new
quotas added, etc.
Setting a quota to zero indicates that no quota should be imposed.
.PP
Users are permitted to exceed their soft limits for a grace period that
may be specified per filesystem.  Once the grace period has expired, the
soft limit is enforced as a hard limit.
.PP
The current usage information in the file is for informational purposes;
only the hard and soft limits can be changed.
.PP
Upon leaving the editor,
.B edquota
reads the temporary file and modifies the binary quota files to reflect
the changes made.
.LP
The editor invoked is
.BR vi (1)
unless either the
.SB EDITOR
or the
.SB VISUAL
environment variable specifies otherwise.
.LP
Only the super-user may edit quotas.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-r
Edit also non-local quota use rpc.rquotad on remote server to set quota.
The
.B \-n
option is equivalent, and is maintained for backward compatibility.
.TP
.B \-u
Edit the user quota. This is the default.
.TP
.B \-g
Edit the group quota.
.TP
.B \-p \f2protoname\f1
Duplicate the quotas of the prototypical user
specified for each user specified.  This is the normal
mechanism used to initialize quotas for groups of users.
.TP
.B \-F \f2format-name\f1
Edit quota for specified format (ie. don't perform format autodetection).
Possible format names are:
.B vfsold
(version 1 quota),
.B vfsv0
(version 2 quota),
.B rpc
(quota over NFS),
.B xfs
(quota on XFS filesystem)
.TP
.B \-f \f2filesystem\f1
Perform specified operations only for given filesystem (default is to perform
operations for all filesystems with quota).
.TP
.B \-t
Edit the soft time limits for each filesystem.
In old quota format if the time limits are zero, the default time limits in
.B <linux/quota.h>
are used. In new quota format time limits must be specified (there is no default
value set in kernel). Time units of seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks, and months
are understood. Time limits are printed in the greatest possible time unit such that
the value is greater than or equal to one.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.BR aquota.user " or " aquota.group
quota file at the filesystem root (version 2 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.BR quota.user " or " quota.group
quota file at the filesystem root (version 1 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B /etc/mtab
mounted filesystems table
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR quota (1),
.BR vi (1),
.BR quotactl (2),
.BR quotacheck (8),
.BR quotaon (8),
.BR repquota (8)
