.TH MINGETTY 8 "6 Apr 1996" "Debian-Local" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
mingetty \- minimal getty for consoles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mingetty
[\-\-noclear] [\-\-nonewline] [\-\-noissue] [\-\-nohangup] [\-\-nohostname]
[\-\-long\-hostname] [\-\-loginprog=/bin/login] [\-\-nice=10] [\-\-delay=5]
[\-\-chdir=/home] [\-\-chroot=/chroot] [\-\-autologin username]
.I tty
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mingetty 
is a minimal getty for use on virtual consoles.
Unlike 
.BR agetty (8),
.B mingetty
is not suitable for serial lines.
I recommend using
.BR mgetty (8) 
for this purpose.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-noclear
Do not clear the screen before prompting for the login name (the screen
is normally cleared).
.TP
.B \-\-nonewline
Do not print a newline before writing out /etc/issue.
.TP
.B \-\-noissue
Do not output /etc/issue.
.TP
.B \-\-nohangup
Do not call vhangup() to disable writing to this tty by
other applications.
.TP
.B \-\-nohostname
Do not print the hostname before the login prompt.
.TP
.B \-\-long\-hostname
By default the hostname is only printed until the first dot.
With this option enabled, the full text from gethostname() is shown.
.TP
.B \-\-loginprog /bin/login
Change the login app.
.TP
.B \-\-nice 10
Change the priority by calling nice().
.TP
.B \-\-delay 5
Sleep this many seconds after startup of mingetty.
.TP
.B \-\-chdir /home
Change into this directory before calling the login prog.
.TP
.B \-\-chroot /chroot
Call chroot() with this directory name.
.TP
.B \-\-autologin username
Log the specified user automatically in without asking for
a login name and password. Check the \-f option from
.B /bin/login
for this.
.PP
.SH "ISSUE ESCAPES"
.B mingetty 
recognizes the following escapes sequences which might be embedded in the 
.I /etc/issue
file:
.IP \fB\ed\fP
insert current day (localtime),
.IP \fB\el\fP
insert line on which 
.B mingetty 
is running,
.IP \fB\em\fP
inserts machine architecture (uname -m),
.IP \fB\en\fP
inserts machine's network node hostname (uname -n),
.IP \fB\eo\fP
inserts domain name,
.IP \fB\er\fP
inserts operating system release (uname -r),
.IP \fB\et\fP
insert current time (localtime),
.IP \fB\es\fP
inserts operating system name,
.IP \fB\eu\fP
resp. \fB\eU\fP
the current number of users which are currently logged in.
\\U inserts "\fIn\fP users", where as \\u only inserts "\fIn\fP".
.IP \fB\ev\fP
inserts operating system version (uname -v).
.PP
.SH EXAMPLE
"\fBLinux\ eos\ i386\ #1\ Tue\ Mar\ 19\ 21:54:09\ MET\ 1996\fP" was produced
by putting "\fB\\s\ \\n\ \\m\ \\v\fP" into
.IR /etc/issue .
.PP
.SH FILES
.IR /etc/issue ,
.IR /var/run/utmp .
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mgetty (8),
.BR agetty (8).
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright \(co 1996 Florian La Roche <laroche@redhat.com>.
Man-page written by David Frey <David.Frey@eos.lugs.ch> and
Florian La Roche.
