.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" This program is distributed according to the Gnu General Public License.
.\" See the file COPYING in the kernel source directory
.\"
.TH MODINFO 8 "March 19, 2002" Linux "Linux Module Support"
.SH NAME
modinfo \- display information about a kernel module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B modinfo
[ options ] <module_file>
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B modinfo
utility examines the object file
.I module_file
associated with a kernel module and displays any information that it
can glean.
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-author
Display the module's author.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-description
Display the module's description.
.TP
.BI \-f format_string ", \-\-format " format_string
Let the user specify an arbitrary format string which can extract
values from the ELF section in
.I module_file
which contains the module information.
Replacements consist of a percent sign followed by a tag name in curly
braces.
A tagname of
.I %{filename}
is always supported, even if the module has no modinfo section.
.I %{kernel_version}
shows the version of the kernel the module was compiled for.
.I %{using_checksums}
expands to 1 is the module has versioned symbols and to 0 or <none>
otherwise.

A tagname of
.I %{parm}
is special: the format string line is repeated for each known module
parameter (which may be zero times) and
.I %{parm}
is then replaced by descriptions of module parameters (one parameter
on each repeated line).

Alternatively,
.I %a\fR,
.I %d\fR,
.I %l\fR,
.I %n
and
.I %p
can be used instead of
.I %{author}\fR,
.I %{description}\fR,
.I %{filename}\fR,
.I %{license}
and
.I %{parm}\fR,
respectively.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display a summary of options and immediately exit.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-license
Display the module's license.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-filename
Display the module's filename.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-parameters
Display the typed parameters that a module may support.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display the version of
.BR modinfo .
.PP
If no options are supplied, the default is filename, description,
author, license and parameters.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR insmod "(8), " modprobe "(8), " depmod "(8), " rmmod "(8), "
.BR lsmod "(8), " ksyms "(8), " modules "(2) "
