.TH QUOTAON 8
.UC 4
.SH NAME
quotaon, quotaoff \- turn filesystem quotas on and off
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /sbin/quotaon
[
.B \-vugfp
] [
.B \-F
.I format-name
]
.IR filesystem .\|.\|.
.br
.B /sbin/quotaon
[
.B \-avugfp
] [
.B \-F
.I format-name
]
.LP
.B /sbin/quotaoff
[
.B \-vugp
]
[
.B \-x
.I state
]
.IR filesystem .\|.\|.
.br
.B /sbin/quotaoff
[
.B \-avugp
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS quotaon
.IX  "quotaon command"  ""  "\fLquotaon\fP \(em turn filesystem quotas on"
.IX  "user quotas"  "quotaon command"  ""  "\fLquotaon\fP \(em turn filesystem quotas on"
.IX  "disk quotas"  "quotaon command"  ""  "\fLquotaon\fP \(em turn filesystem quotas on"
.IX  "quotas"  "quotaon command"  ""  "\fLquotaon\fP \(em turn filesystem quotas on"
.IX  "filesystem"  "quotaon command"  ""  "\fLquotaon\fP \(em turn filesystem quotas on"
.LP
.B quotaon
announces to the system that disk quotas should be enabled on one or
more filesystems. The filesystem quota files must be present in the root
directory of the specified filesystem and be named either
.IR aquota.user
(for version 2 user quota),
.IR quota.user
(for version 1 user quota),
.IR aquota.group
(for version 2 group quota), or
.IR quota.group
(for version 1 group quota).
.PP
XFS filesystems are a special case - XFS considers quota
information as filesystem metadata and uses journaling to provide
a higher level guarantee of consistency.
There are two components to the XFS disk quota system:
accounting and limit enforcement.
Except in the case of the root filesystem, XFS filesystems require
that quota accounting be turned on at mount time.
It is possible to enable and disable limit enforcement on any XFS
filesystem after quota accounting is already turned on.
The default is to turn on both accounting and enforcement.
.PP
The XFS quota implementation does not maintain quota information in
user-visible files, but rather stores this information internally.
.SS quotaoff
.IX  "quotaoff command"  ""  "\fLquotaoff\fP \(em turn filesystem quotas off"
.IX  "user quotas"  "quotaoff command"  ""  "\fLquotaoff\fP \(em turn filesystem quotas off"
.IX  "disk quotas"  "quotaoff command"  ""  "\fLquotaoff\fP \(em turn filesystem quotas off"
.IX  "quotas"  "quotaoff command"  ""  "\fLquotaoff\fP \(em turn filesystem quotas off"
.IX  "filesystem"  "quotaoff command"  ""  "\fLquotaoff\fP \(em turn filesystem quotas off"
.LP
.B quotaoff
announces to the system that the specified filesystems should
have any disk quotas turned off.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS quotaon
.TP
.B \-a
All automatically mounted (no
.B noauto
option) non-NFS filesystems in
.B /etc/fstab
with quotas will have their quotas turned on.
This is normally used at boot time to enable quotas.
.TP
.B \-v
Display a message for each filesystem where quotas are turned on.
.TP
.B \-u
Manipulate user quotas. This is the default.
.TP
.B \-g
Manipulate group quotas.
.TP
.B \-p
Instead of turning quotas on just print state of quotas (ie. whether. quota is on or off)
.TP
.B \-f
Make
.B quotaon
behave like being called as
.BR quotaoff .
.SS quotaoff
.TP
.B \-F \f2format-name\f1
Report quota for specified format (ie. don't perform format autodetection).
Possible format names are:
.B vfsold
(version 1 quota),
.B vfsv0
(version 2 quota),
.B xfs
(quota on XFS filesystem)
.TP
.B \-a
Force all filesystems in
.B /etc/fstab
to have their quotas disabled.
.TP
.B \-v
Display a message for each filesystem affected.
.TP
.B \-u
Manipulate user quotas. This is the default.
.TP
.B \-g
Manipulate group quotas.
.TP
.B \-p
Instead of turning quotas off just print state of quotas (ie. whether. quota is on or off)
.TP
.B \-x delete
Free up the space used to hold quota information (maintained
internally) within XFS.
This option is only applicable to XFS, and is silently
ignored for other filesystem types.
It can only be used on a filesystem with quota previously turned off.
.TP
.B \-x enforce
Switch off limit enforcement for XFS filesystems (perform
quota accounting only).
This option is only applicable to XFS, and is silently
ignored for other filesystem types.
.LP
.SH "XFS EXAMPLES"
.TP 0
.B "Turning on quotas on a non-root XFS filesystem"
Use
.IR mount (8)
or
.B /etc/fstab
option quota to enable both accounting and limit enforcement.
.B quotaon
utility cannot be used for this purpose.
.TP
.B "Turning on quotas on an XFS root filesystem"
Use
.BR "quotaon -v /" ,
and
.IR reboot (8).
This procedure will enable both accounting and limit enforcement.
.TP
.B "Turning off quota limit enforcement on any XFS filesystem"
Make sure that quota accounting and enforcement are both turned on using
.BR "repquota -s" .
Use
.B "quotaoff -vo"
to disable limit enforcement.
This may be done while the filesystem is mounted.
.TP
.BR "Turning on quota limit enforcement on any XFS filesystem"
Make sure that quota accounting is turned on using
.BR "repquota -s" .
Use
.BR "quotaon -v" .
This may be done while the filesystem is mounted.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B aquota.user or aquota.group
quota file at the filesystem root (version 2 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B quota.user or quota.group
quota file at the filesystem root (version 1 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B /etc/fstab
default filesystems
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR quotactl (2),
.BR fstab (5),
.BR repquota (8).
