.TH REPQUOTA 8
.UC 4
.SH NAME
repquota \- summarize quotas for a filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/sbin/repquota
[
.B \-vsug
] [
.B \-t
|
.B \-n
] [
.B \-F
.I format-name
]
.IR filesystem .\|.\|.
.LP
.B /usr/sbin/repquota
[
.B \-avtsug
] [
.B \-t
|
.B \-n
] [
.B \-F
.I format-name
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "repquota command"  ""  "\fLrepquota\fP \(em summarize quotas"
.IX  "user quotas"  "repquota command"  ""  "\fLrepquota\fP \(em summarize quotas"
.IX  "disk quotas"  "repquota command"  ""  "\fLrepquota\fP \(em summarize quotas"
.IX  "quotas"  "repquota command"  ""  "\fLrepquota\fP \(em summarize quotas"
.IX  "filesystem"  "repquota command"  ""  "\fLrepquota\fP \(em summarize quotas"
.IX  "summarize filesystem quotas repquota"  ""  "summarize filesystem quotas \(em \fLrepquota\fP"
.IX  "report filesystem quotas repquota"  ""  "report filesystem quotas \(em \fLrepquota\fP"
.IX  display "filesystem quotas \(em \fLrepquota\fP"
.LP
.B repquota
prints a summary of the disc usage and quotas for the specified file
systems.  For each user the current number of files and amount of space
(in kilobytes) is printed, along with any quotas created with
.BR edquota (8).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Report on all filesystems indicated in
.B /etc/mtab
to be read-write with quotas.
.TP
.B \-v
Report all quotas, even if there is no usage. Be also more verbose about quotafile
information.
.TP
.B \-t
Truncate user/group names longer than 9 characters. This results in nicer output when
there are such names.
.TP
.B \-n
Don't resolve UIDs/GIDs to names. This can speedup printing a lot.
.TP
.B \-s
Try to report used space, number of used inodes and limits in more appropriate units
than default ones.
.TP
.B \-F \f2format-name\f1
Report quota for specified format (ie. don't perform format autodetection).
Possible format names are:
.B vfsold
(version 1 quota),
.B vfsv0
(version 2 quota),
.B rpc
(quota over NFS),
.B xfs
(quota on XFS filesystem)
.TP
.B \-g
Report quotas for groups.
.TP
.B \-u
Report quotas for users. This is the default.
.LP
Only the super-user may view quotas which are not their own.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.BR aquota.user " or " aquota.group
quota file at the filesystem root (version 2 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.BR quota.user " or " quota.group
quota file at the filesystem root (version 1 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B /etc/mtab
default filesystems
.TP
.B /etc/passwd
default set of users
.TP
.B /etc/group
default set of groups
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR quota (1),
.BR quotactl (2),
.BR edquota (8),
.BR quotacheck (8),
.BR quotaon (8)
