.TH SETQUOTA 8
.SH NAME
setquota \- set disk quotas
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/sbin/setquota
[
.B \-r
]
[
.B \-u
|
.B \-g
]
[
.B \-F
.I quotaformat
]
.I name
.I block-softlimit
.I block-hardlimit
.I inode-softlimit
.I inode-hardlimit
.B \-a
|
.I filesystem...
.LP
.B /usr/sbin/setquota
[
.B \-r
]
[
.B \-u
|
.B \-g
]
[
.B \-F
.I quotaformat
]
[
.B \-p
.I protoname 
]
.I name
.B \-a
|
.I filesystem...
.LP
.B /usr/sbin/setquota
.B \-t
[
.B \-u
|
.B \-g
]
[
.B \-F
.I quotaformat
]
.I block-grace
.I inode-grace
.B \-a
|
.I filesystem...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "setquota command"  ""  "\fLsetquota\fP \(em set disk quotas"
.IX  set "disk quotas \(em \fLsetquota\fP"
.IX  "disk quotas"  "setquota command"  ""  "\fLsetquota\fP \(em set disk quotas"
.IX  "disk quotas"  "setquota command"  ""  "\fLsetquota\fP \(em set disk quotas"
.IX  "quotas"  "setquota command"  ""  "\fLsetquota\fP \(em set disk quotas"
.IX  "filesystem"  "setquota command"  ""  "\fLsetquota\fP \(em set disk quotas"
.B setquota
is a command line quota editor.
The filesystem, user/group name and new quotas for this
filesystem can be specified on the command line.
.TP
.B -r
Edit also remote quota use rpc.rquotad on remote server to set quota.
.TP
.B -F \f2quotaformat\f1
Perform setting for specified format (ie. don't perform format autodetection).
Possible format names are:
.B vfsold
(version 1 quota),
.B vfsv0
(version 2 quota),
.B rpc
(quota over NFS),
.B xfs
(quota on XFS filesystem)
.TP
.B -u
Set user quotas for named user. This is the default.
.TP
.B -g
Set group quotas for named group.
.TP
.B -p \f2protoname\f1
Use quota settings of user or group
.I protoname
to set the quota for the named user or group.
.TP
.B -t
Set grace times for users/groups. Times
.B block-grace
and
.B inode-grace
are specified in seconds.
.TP
.B -a
Go through all filesystems with quota in
.B /etc/mtab
and perform setting.
.PP
To disable a quota, set the coresponding parameter to 0. To change quotas
for several filesystems, invoke once for each filesystem.
.PP
Only the super-user may edit quotas.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B aquota.user or aquota.group
quota file at the filesystem root (version 2 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B quota.user or quota.group
quota file at the filesystem root (version 1 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B /etc/mtab
mounted filesystem table
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR edquota (8),
.BR quota (1),
.BR quotactl (2),
.BR quotacheck (8),
.BR quotaon (8),
.BR repquota (8)
