.\" vmstat.8 - manpage for the vmstat(8) utility, part of procps
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2003 Robert Love
.\" Licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License, v2
.TH VMSTAT 8 "02 Jun 2003" "Linux" "Linux User's Manual"
.SH NAME
vmstat \- display virtual memory statistics

.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "vmstat [flags]
.RI [ delay " [" count ]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR vmstat (8)
utility reports statistical information about process status, memory
consumption, paging activity, block I/O operations, interrupts, context
switches, and processor usage.

The
.BR vmstat (8)
utility is most commonly used to produce a continuous report every
.IR delay
seconds.  In this mode, the first report given is the average of the statistics
since system boot. Each subsequent line pertains to that sampling period (that
is, the last
.IR delay
seconds).  If no
.IR delay
value is given, only one report is given, which is the average since system
boot.

The optional
.IR count
value specifies a maximum number of reports to print before terminating. By
default (that is, when no
.IR count
value is given)
.BR vmstat (8)
will continue to print reports every
.IR delay
seconds until interrupted.

.SH OPTIONS
Normal invocation of 
.BR vmstat (8)
does not require any options.  The output, however, can be fine-tuned by
specifying one or more of the following flags:
.TP
.B \-\-active, \-a
Display active and inactive memory statistics in lieu of the buffer and cache
statistics.
.TP
.B \-\-noheaders, \-n
Do not regularly update the header describing each column. Normally, the header
is periodically reprinted to ensure it is always viewable.
.TP
.B \-\-bytes, \-b
Display the statistics in bytes.
.TP
.B \-\-kb, \-kb
Display the statistics in kilobytes.  This is the default.
.TP
.B \-\-mb, \-m
Display the statistics in megabytes.
.TP
.B \-\-gb, -g
Display the statistics in gigabytes.  Note that the translation silently rounds
down any underflow and displays the result as an integer.  This means that the
translation is efficient and simple, but that a large unit (i.e., MB or GB)
with small statistics will display zero and not a decimal fraction.
.TP
.B \-\-version, \-V
Display version information and then exit.
.TP
.B \--help
Display usage information and then exit.

.SH FIELDS
.SS
.B "procs"
.nf
r: The number of runnable processes (that is, processes running or
   waiting to run).
b: The number of processes in uninterruptible sleep.
.fi
.PP
.SS
.B "memory"
.nf
swpd  : the amount of memory paged to disk (in KB by default)
free  : the amount of free physical memory (in KB by default)
buff  : the amount of memory consumed by buffers (in KB by default)
inact : the amount of memory on the inactive list (in KB by default)
active: the amount of memory on the active list (in KB by default)
.fi
.PP
.SS
.B "swap"
.nf
si: the amount of memory paged in from disk (in KB/s by default)
so: the amount of memory paged out to disk (in KB/s by default)
.fi
.PP
.SS
.B "io"
.nf
bi: blocks sent out to a block device (in blocks/s)
bo: blocks received from a block device (in blocks/s)
.fi
.PP
.SS
.B "system"
.nf
in: the number of interrupts received (in interrupts/s)
cs: the number of context switches (in switches/s)
.fi
.PP
.SS
.B "cpu"
.nf
us: percentage of total processor time consumed by user-space
sy: percentage of total processor time consumed by the kernel
wa: percentage of total processor time spent in I/O wait
id: percentage of total processor time spent idle
.fi

.SH NOTES

The current implementation of
.BR vmstat (8)
does not display the traditional "w" field under "procs".  This is because
Linux is a demand paging operating system and does not support the notion of
swapping out entire processes.  Thus this statistic is worthless.  Older
versions of
.BR vmstat (8)
just displayed a hardcoded zero for this value.  Even older versions
calculated the field based on the number of RSS pages the process owns.
Although this is a close analogy to the concept of "swapped out", it is still a
misleading statistic as the Linux kernel has not explicitly decided to swap to
disk the entire process.

This version of
.BR vmstat(8)
displays I/O wait statistics as "wa" under the "cpu" section.  This field is
not part of traditional
.BR vmstat (8)
implementations, but Linux kernels since 2.5 have exported this (very useful)
information.  Earlier kernels will simply display zero for this field.

.SH FILES
.IR /proc/meminfo " \-\- memory information"
.TP
.IR /proc/stat " \-\- system statistics"
.TP
.IR /proc/[1-9]*/stat " \-\- process statistics"

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ps (1),
.BR top (1),
.BR free (1)

.SH AUTHORS
Written by Robert Love.

The procps package is maintained by Robert Love and was created by Michael
Johnson.

Send bug reports to <procps-list@redhat.com>.
