.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:56:20 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Mon Oct 21 21:38:51 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" (and some more by aeb)
.\"
.TH HD 4 1992-12-17 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
hd \- MFM/IDE 硬盘设备
.SH "描述 DESCRIPTION"
\fBhd*\fP 开头的设备是以裸模式(raw mode)访问MFM/IDE类型硬盘的块
设备. 第一个IDE驱动控制器上的主盘(主设备号3)是 \fBhda\fR ;从盘是 \fBhdb\fR.
第二个IDE驱动器控制器(主设备号22)是 \fBhdc\fR ,从为 \fBhdd\fR.
.LP
大多数IDE 块设备以
.BI hd X\c
, 或者
.BI hd XP\c
的形式命名,  其中字母
.I X
代表任意字母以表示各个物理设备.其中P表示各个物理设备中分区的代号.
.I P
表示各个物理设备中分区的代号。第一种形式
.BI hd X,
代表整个驱动器的地址,而分区号是按照每个分区
被发现的顺序分配的,并且只有非空和非扩展分区才能有这个号码
然而不管这个分区是未使用过的还是扩展的,在MBR中只纪录四个分区
号码依次为1-4. 因此逻辑分区只能从
.BI hd X 5\c
开始。支持DOS 风格的分区以及BSD-磁盘卷标分区。
你最多可以在一个IDE磁盘上建立63个分区.
.LP
例如，
.B /dev/hda
代表第一个IDE驱动器的全部；
.B /dev/hdb3
代表第二块IDE硬盘上的第三DOS 主分区.
.LP
典型如下建立:
.RS
.sp
mknod -m 660 /dev/hda b 3 0
.br
mknod -m 660 /dev/hda1 b 3 1
.br
mknod -m 660 /dev/hda2 b 3 2
.br
\&...
.br
mknod -m 660 /dev/hda8 b 3 8
.br
mknod -m 660 /dev/hdb b 3 64
.br
mknod -m 660 /dev/hdb1 b 3 65
.br
mknod -m 660 /dev/hdb2 b 3 66
.br
\&...
.br
mknod -m 660 /dev/hdb8 b 3 72
.br
chown root:disk /dev/hd*
.RE
.SH "文件 FILES"
/dev/hd*
.SH "参见 SEE ALSO"
.BR mknod (1),
.BR chown (1),
.BR mount (8),
.BR sd (4)

.SH "[中文版维护人]"
.B trcbilg <email>
.SH "[中文版最新更新]"
.B 2000.11.22
.SH "《中国linux论坛man手册翻译计划》:"
.BI http://cmpp.linuxforum.net 
