.\" apm.1 -- 
.\" Created: Wed Jan 10 14:54:03 1996 by r.faith@ieee.org
.\" Revised: Sun Apr 21 16:37:43 1996 by r.faith@ieee.org
.\" Copyright 1996 Rickard E. Faith (r.faith@ieee.org)
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" 
.TH APM 1 "10 Jan 1996" "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
apm \- 查询高级电源管理(APM) BIOS
.SH 总览
.B apm
[ \-
.I vVmsS
]
.SH 描述
.B apm
读取
.B  /proc/apm
并用人能看懂的格式输出。因为提供了首要的
电池状态，这个命令在有兼容的
.B  APM BIOS
的笔记本电脑上非常有用。
.B apm
允许使机器进入等待或挂起模式。
.SH  选项
.TP
.B -V, --version
输出
.B  apm
程序的版本并立即退出。
.TP
.B  -v, --verbose
输出关于
.B  APM BIOS
的版本和
.B  Linux APM
驱动程序的版本的信息。
.TP
.B -m, --minutes
输出剩余的总共的分钟数而不是
.I  hh:mm
格式。
.TP
.B -s, --suspend
如果可能使机器进入挂起模式。
.TP
.B -S, --standby
如果可能使机器进入等待模式。
.TP
.B  -i, --ignore
告诉系统在使用
.B  AC （交流）
电源时忽略系统生成的
.B  APM
挂起或等待事件。
对这样的用户有用：拥有膝上型电脑，在用电池为电源
时希望
.B  APM 
事件发生，在使用
.B  AC （交流）
电源时不希望
.B APM
事件发生。
.TP
.B -n, --noignore
告诉系统在使用
.B  AC
电源时不忽略系统生成的
.B  APM
挂起或等待事件。
这是缺省的模式；提供这个选项作为取消的前
面的 "
.I apm -i
" 调用的方法。
.SH  缺陷
本程序要求内核在 
.BI 1.3.57
以上。除非在老的内核上增加
.B  APM
补丁否则不能运行。原因是
.B  /proc/apm
的格式被更改得非常迅速。
.SH 相关文件
.I /proc/apm
.br
.I  linux/drivers/char/apm_bios.c
.SH  著作者
本程序是由 Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)写的，在 GPL 条款下
可以自由发布。对这个程序绝对没有任何担保。当前的维护者是
Avery Pennarun (apenwarr@worldvisions.ca)。
.SH  参见
xapm(1), apmd(8)
.SH [中文版维护人]
mhss
.SH [中文版最新更新]
2000/10/31 
.SH 《中国 Linux 论坛 man 手册页翻译计划》:
.BI http://cmpp.linuxforum.net
