.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1995, 1998, 1999, 2000 Free Software Foundation
.\" See section COPYING for conditions for redistribution
.TH ar 1 "1999" "Free Software Foundation" "GNU 开发工具"
.de BP
.sp
.ti \-.2i
\(**
..

.SH NAME
ar \- 建立, 修改档案或从档案中抽取成员.

.SH 总览
.hy 0
.na
.BR ar " [\|" "-" "\|]"\c
.I {dmpqrtx}[abcfilNoPsSuvV] \c
[\|\c
.I membername\c
\&\|] \c
[\|\c
.I count\c
\&\|] \c
.I archive\c
\& \c
.I files\c
\&.\|.\|.

.ad b
.hy 1
.SH 描述
GNU 组织的\c
.B ar\c
\& 程序 用于建立, 修改档案 或从档案中 抽取成员.
一个 \c
.I 档案\c
\& 是一个 包含了 很多 其它 文件的 单独的 文件,
它采用的 结构 使得 可以 很容易 恢复 原来 独立的 文件
(称为 档案的 \c
.I 成员\c
\& ).

原始文件 (成员)的 内容, 权限, 时间属性, 属主和组都
在档案中 得到 保留, 在抽取时 可以 得到 恢复.

\c
.B ar\c
\& 程序 维护的 档案成员 可以 拥有 一定 长度的 名字; 具体情况,
与你系统上的\c
.B ar\c
\& 是怎样 配置的 有关.
为了 与其它 工具 维护的 档案格式 兼容,
有可能 对成员 名字的 长度 有严格的 限制,
如果 确实是 这样, 通常 要求 采用 15 个字符
(典型的 格式是 a.out), 或者 16 个字符(典型的 格式是 coff).

\c
.B ar\c
\& 是一个二进制格式的 工具, 因为 这一类 档案 多数 都作为
保存 公共 例程的\c
.I 库文件\c
\& 使用.

通过 指定 修饰符`\|\c
.B s\c
\|', \c
.B ar\c
\& 
可以 建立 指向 档案中 可重定位 目标 模块
定义的 符号表的 索引,
一旦建立, 在\c
.B ar\c
\& 更新 其内容时 (通过`\|\c
.B q\c
\|' 执行 更新 操作) ,
此索引 也会 得到 更新.
有这种 索引的 档案 可以 加速到 库文件的 连接过程,
并且 允许 库中的 例程 相互调用 而无须 考虑
它们 在档案中的 位置.

可以 使用`\|\c
.B nm \-s\c
\|' 或 `\|\c
.B nm \-\-print\-armap\c
\|' 列出 这种索引, 如果 档案 没有这类 索引,
可以 使用 另外 一个 称为\c
.B ranlib\c
\& 的\c
.B ar\c
\& 程序 增加 这种 索引.

\c
.B ar\c
\& 至少 需要 两个 参数 才能 运行:
一个 指明 执行的\c
.I 操作\c
\& (可能 伴随有 其它的\c
.I 修饰符\c
\&), 作用的 档案 名字.
多数 操作 可以 接受 更多的\c
.I 文件\c
\& 参数,  指明 操作的 详细 文件.

.SH 选项
\c
.B ar\c
\& 允许你 在第一个 命令行 参数中
以任意 顺序 混合 指定 操作码\c
.I p\c
\& 和修饰符\c
.I mod\c
\& .

只要你 愿意, 也可以 用破折号 作为 命令行 第一个 参数的 开始.

\c
.I p\c
\& 关键字 指明 要执行的 操作, 只能 指明为 如下 之一:

.TP
.B d
从档案中\c
.I 删除\c
\& 模块. 通过\c
.I files\c
\& 指明 要删除的 模块的 名称; 如果 没有 指出 要删除的
文件 名称, 档案不会 改变 任何 内容.

如果 给出了\c
.B 'v\c
\|' 修饰符,\c
.B ar\c
\& 会例出 它删除的 每一个 模块.

.TP
.B m
用此 操作 在档案中\c
.I 移动\c
\& 成员.

如果 某个 符号名 在档案的 多个 成员中 有定义,
那么 程序 怎样 连接 档案 文件
得到的 结果 可能是 不同的.

如果 没有为\c
.B m\c
\& 指定 修饰符, 由\c
.I files\c
\& 指出的 成员 将移动到 档案的\c
.I 末尾\c
\& ;
可以 通过 `\|\c
.B a\c
\|', `\|\c
.B b\c
\|' 或 `\|\c
.B i\c
\|' 等修饰符, 指定 成员 移动的 具体 位置.

.TP
.B p
在标准 输出上
\c
.I 打印\c
\& 档案中 指定的 成员.
如果 给出了`\|\c
.B v\c
\|' 修饰符, 在 打印 成员 内容 之前,
先打印 成员的 名字.

如果没有 指明\c
.I files\c
\& 参数, 档案中 所有的 成员 都会被 打印 出来.

.TP
.B q
\c
.I 快速 追加\c
\&; 增加 \c
.I files\c
\& 到 \c
.I archive\c
\& 的末尾, 不进行 替换 检查.

修饰符 `\|\c
.B a\c
\|' `\|\c
.B b\c
\|' 和 `\|\c
.B i\c
\|'\c
.I 不\c
\& 影响此 操作, 新成员 始终 追加到 档案的 末尾处.

修饰符 `\|\c
.B v\c
\|' 可以使 \c
.B ar\c
\& 列出 它追加的 所有文件.

由于 本功能 是用于 快速操作, 即使 档案中
有 符号表 索引 也不 进行 更新; 可以 使用 `\|\c
.B ar s\c
\|' 或
\c
.B ranlib\c
\& 明确 要求 更新 这些索引.

在为快速 追加 重建 索引时,由于 有 太多 不同的 系统,
所以 GNU
.B ar
采用 `\|\c
.B q\c
\|' 作为 `\|\c
.B r\c
\|'的一个 同义字.

.TP
.B r
把文件 \c
.I files\c
\& 插入 \c
.I archive\c
\& ( \c
.I 替换 \c
\&). 本操作与 `\|\c
.B q\c
\|' 是不同的, 如果 档案中 已有的 某个 成员与
插入 文件的 名称 相同, 此成员 将被删除. 

如果 不存在 名称为 \c
.I files\c
\& 的文件, \c
.B ar\c
\&
显示 一个 错误 消息, 
并且 保留 档案中 已有的 同名 成员.

缺省情况下, 新成员 增加到 挡案的 末尾;
可以 通过 使用 `\|\c
.B a\c
\|' `\|\c
.B b\c
\|' 或 `\|\c
.B i\c
\|' 等修饰符 指定 相对于 已有 成员的 位置.

通过 使用 `\|\c
.B v\c
\|' 修饰符 会为每个 插入的 文件 产生 一行 输出,
根据 输出中的 字符 `\|\c
.B a\c
\|' 或
`\|\c
.B r\c
\|' 可以 表明 该文件 是追加的 (没有 删除 以前的成员)
还是 替换的.

.TP
.B t
显示 一个 \c
.I archive\c
\& 
档案 所包含 内容的 \c
.I 列表 \c
\&, 或 档案中的 由 \c
.I files\c
\& 指出的 文件 列表.
通常 只显示 成员的 名称, 如果 使用 `\|\c
.B v\c
\|' 修饰符, 可以 得到 成员的 权限,
时间属性, 属主, 组和 大小.

如果 没有 指出 \c
.I files\c
\&, 档案中的 所有 文件 都会 列出.

如果 档案中
(称为 `\|\c
.B b.a\c
\|') 有多个 同名 成员 (称为 `\|\c
.B fie\c
\|'), `\|\c
.B ar t b.a fie\c
\|' 仅仅 列出 第一个; 要看到 它们的 全部,
必须 要求 完整的 列表
\(em\&在本例中是 `\|\c
.B ar t b.a\c
\|'.

.TP
.B x
从档案中
\c
.I 抽取 \c
\& 成员 (名称为 \c
.I files\c
\&) .  如果 使用 `\|\c
.B v\c
\|' 修饰符, \c
.B ar\c
\& 会列出 它抽取的 每一个 文件的 名字.

如果没有给出 \c
.I files\c
\&, 抽取 档案中 所有的 文件.

.PP

可以在 操作符 \c
.I p\c
\& 后紧随 一定数量的 修饰符 \c
.I mod \c
以指明 操作的 各种 行为.

.TP
.B a
增加 文件到 档案中 已有 成员 \c
.I 之后 \c
\& , 如果 使用了 修饰符 \c
.B a\c
\&, 必须在 档案 名称 \c
.I archive\c
\& 之前 以 \c
.I membername\c
\& 参数的 形式 给出 档案中 已有 成员的 名字.

.TP
.B b
增加 文件到 档案中 已有 成员 \c
.I 之前 \c
\& , 如果 使用了 修饰符 \c
.B b\c
\&, 必须在 档案 名称 \c
.I archive\c
\& 之前 以 \c
.I membername\c
\& 参数的 形式 给出 档案中 已有 成员的 名字.
(和修饰符 `\|\c
.B i\c
\|' 相同).

.TP
.B c
\c
.I 建立 \c
\& 档案.  指定的 档案 \c
.I archive\c
\& 始终 会被建立, 如果 你要求 执行的是 更新,
通过 此修饰符 建立 档案时 会给出 一个 警告.

.TP
.B f
截短 档案成员的 名字.
.B ar
通常 允许 任意 长度的 文件名, 但这会 导致 与某些 系统上的
.B ar
出现 兼容性 问题, 使用
.B f
修饰符 可以 在往档案中 追加 文件时 把名字 截短.

.TP
.B i
插入 文件到 档案中 已有 成员 \c
.I 之前 \c
\& , 如果 使用了 修饰符 \c
.B i\c
\&, 必须在 档案 名称 \c
.I archive\c
\& 之前 以 \c
.I membername\c
\& 参数的 形式 给出 档案中 已有 成员的 名字.
(与修饰符 `\|\c
.B b\c
\|' 相同).

.TP
.B l
接受此修饰符, 但不起作用.

.TP
.B N
使用
.I count
参数. 本修饰符 用于 在档案中 有多个
同名 成员的 情况.
删除 或抽取 档案中 给定 名字的第
.I count
个实例.

.TP
.B o
抽取 成员时 保留 他们 \c
.I 原始的 \c
\& 时间属性. 如果 没有 此修饰符, 文件以抽取
的时间 作为 它的时间 属性.

.TP
.B P
匹配 档案中的 名字时 使用 完整的 路径名.
.B ar
不能 建立 使用 完整 路径名的 档案
(这不符合 POSIX 标准), 但其它的 档案 工具 能够建立,
本选项 会使
.B ar
在抽取 由其它 工具 建立的 档案 文件时,
使用完整的 路径名 去匹配 档案中 成员的 名字.

.TP
.B s
即使 没有对 档案 进行 改变, 用本 修饰符 也可以
往档案中 写一个 目标 文件的 索引 或更新 已经 存在的 索引.
可以与 其它 操作 一起 使用 本修饰符, 也可以 单独使用.
对一个 档案 执行 `\|\c
.B ar s\c
\|' 与执行 `\|\c
.B ranlib\c
\|' 等价. 

.TP
.B S
不生成 档案的 符号表. 这可以 加速 建立 大的档案
文件的 过程,但这样 建立的 档案 不能被 连接器 使用,
为建立 符号表, 在最后 执行 `\|\c
.B ar\c
\|' 时应该 不用 `\|\c
.B S\c
\|' 修饰符, 或者 对档案 执行 一次 `\|\c
.B ranlib\c
\|' .

.TP
.B u
通常\c
.B ar r\c
\&.\|.\|. 把所有 列出的 文件 插入到 档案中,
如果 希望 \c
.I 仅仅 \c 
插入比 档案中 已有 成员 更新的 文件时,
就应该 使用 此修饰符.  `\|\c
.B u\c
\|' 修饰符 仅允许 与 `\|\c
.B r\c
\|' (替换) 操作 一起 使用.  某些 情况下,
由于 用 `\|\c
.B q\c
\|' 操作 比较 文件的 时间属性 会失去
速度上的 优势, 所以 不允许 执行
`\|\c
.B qu\c
\|' 组合操作.

.TP
.B v
使用 本修饰符  可以 进行 \c
.I 冗余的\c
\& 操作. 附加了此 修饰符时, 很多 操作 会显示
更多的 消息, 如处理的 文件名等.

.TP
.B V
显示
.BR ar
的版本号 .

.PP

.SH "参考"
.B
info\c
\& 中的
.RB "`\|" binutils "\|'"
条目;
.I
The GNU Binary Utilities\c
, Roland H. Pesch (1991年10月).
.BR nm ( 1 )\c
\&,
.BR ranlib ( 1 )\c
\&.

.SH 版权
Copyright (c) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1995, 1998, 1999, 2000 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.PP
This document is distributed under the terms of the GNU Free
Documentation License, version 1.1.  That license is described in the
sources for this manual page, but it is not displayed here in order to
make this manual more consise.  Copies of this license can also be
obtained from: http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/.

\"  .SH GNU Free Documentation License
\"    Version 1.1, March 2000

\"    Copyright (C) 2000  Free Software Foundation, Inc.
\"    59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
     
\"    Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim
\"    copies of this license document, but changing it is
\"    not allowed.
\"  .PP
\"  0. PREAMBLE
\"  .PP
\"  The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other
\"  written document "free" in the sense of freedom: to assure everyone
\"  the effective freedom to copy and redistribute it, with or without
\"  modifying it, either commercially or noncommercially.  Secondarily,
\"  this License preserves for the author and publisher a way to get
\"  credit for their work, while not being considered responsible for
\"  modifications made by others.
\"  .PP
\"  This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative
\"  works of the document must themselves be free in the same sense.  It
\"  complements the GNU General Public License, which is a copyleft
\"  license designed for free software.
\"  .PP
\"  We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free
\"  software, because free software needs free documentation: a free
\"  program should come with manuals providing the same freedoms that the
\"  software does.  But this License is not limited to software manuals;
\"  it can be used for any textual work, regardless of subject matter or
\"  whether it is published as a printed book.  We recommend this License
\"  principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.
\"  .PP
\"  1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS
\"  .PP
\"  This License applies to any manual or other work that contains a
\"  notice placed by the copyright holder saying it can be distributed
\"  under the terms of this License.  The "Document", below, refers to any
\"  such manual or work.  Any member of the public is a licensee, and is
\"  addressed as "you".
\"  .PP
\"  A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the
\"  Document or a portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with
\"  modifications and/or translated into another language.
\"  .PP
\"  A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section of
\"  the Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the
\"  publishers or authors of the Document to the Document's overall subject
\"  (or to related matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly
\"  within that overall subject.  (For example, if the Document is in part a
\"  textbook of mathematics, a Secondary Section may not explain any
\"  mathematics.)  The relationship could be a matter of historical
\"  connection with the subject or with related matters, or of legal,
\"  commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding
\"  them.
\"  .PP
\"  The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles
\"  are designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice
\"  that says that the Document is released under this License.
\"  .PP
\"  The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed,
\"  as Front-Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that
\"  the Document is released under this License.
\"  .PP
\"  A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy,
\"  represented in a format whose specification is available to the
\"  general public, whose contents can be viewed and edited directly and
\"  straightforwardly with generic text editors or (for images composed of
\"  pixels) generic paint programs or (for drawings) some widely available
\"  drawing editor, and that is suitable for input to text formatters or
\"  for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable for input
\"  to text formatters.  A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file
\"  format whose markup has been designed to thwart or discourage
\"  subsequent modification by readers is not Transparent.  A copy that is
\"  not "Transparent" is called "Opaque".
\"  .PP
\"  Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain
\"  ASCII without markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML
\"  or XML using a publicly available DTD, and standard-conforming simple
\"  HTML designed for human modification.  Opaque formats include
\"  PostScript, PDF, proprietary formats that can be read and edited only
\"  by proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for which the DTD and/or
\"  processing tools are not generally available, and the
\"  machine-generated HTML produced by some word processors for output
\"  purposes only.
\"  .PP
\"  The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself,
\"  plus such following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material
\"  this License requires to appear in the title page.  For works in
\"  formats which do not have any title page as such, "Title Page" means
\"  the text near the most prominent appearance of the work's title,
\"  preceding the beginning of the body of the text.
\"  .PP
\"  2. VERBATIM COPYING
\"  .PP
\"  You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either
\"  commercially or noncommercially, provided that this License, the
\"  copyright notices, and the license notice saying this License applies
\"  to the Document are reproduced in all copies, and that you add no other
\"  conditions whatsoever to those of this License.  You may not use
\"  technical measures to obstruct or control the reading or further
\"  copying of the copies you make or distribute.  However, you may accept
\"  compensation in exchange for copies.  If you distribute a large enough
\"  number of copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.
\"  .PP
\"  You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and
\"  you may publicly display copies.
\"  .PP
\"  3. COPYING IN QUANTITY
\"  .PP
\"  If you publish printed copies of the Document numbering more than 100,
\"  and the Document's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose
\"  the copies in covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all these Cover
\"  Texts: Front-Cover Texts on the front cover, and Back-Cover Texts on
\"  the back cover.  Both covers must also clearly and legibly identify
\"  you as the publisher of these copies.  The front cover must present
\"  the full title with all words of the title equally prominent and
\"  visible.  You may add other material on the covers in addition.
\"  Copying with changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve
\"  the title of the Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated
\"  as verbatim copying in other respects.
\"  .PP
\"  If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit
\"  legibly, you should put the first ones listed (as many as fit
\"  reasonably) on the actual cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent
\"  pages.
\"  .PP
\"  If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering
\"  more than 100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent
\"  copy along with each Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy
\"  a publicly-accessible computer-network location containing a complete
\"  Transparent copy of the Document, free of added material, which the
\"  general network-using public has access to download anonymously at no
\"  charge using public-standard network protocols.  If you use the latter
\"  option, you must take reasonably prudent steps, when you begin
\"  distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that this
\"  Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated location
\"  until at least one year after the last time you distribute an Opaque
\"  copy (directly or through your agents or retailers) of that edition to
\"  the public.
\"  .PP
\"  It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the
\"  Document well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give
\"  them a chance to provide you with an updated version of the Document.
\"  .PP
\"  4. MODIFICATIONS
\"  .PP
\"  You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under
\"  the conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release
\"  the Modified Version under precisely this License, with the Modified
\"  Version filling the role of the Document, thus licensing distribution
\"  and modification of the Modified Version to whoever possesses a copy
\"  of it.  In addition, you must do these things in the Modified Version:
\"  .PP
\"  A. Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title distinct
\"  from that of the Document, and from those of previous versions
\"  (which should, if there were any, be listed in the History section
\"  of the Document).  You may use the same title as a previous version
\"  if the original publisher of that version gives permission.
\"  .PP
\"  B. List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or entities
\"  responsible for authorship of the modifications in the Modified
\"  Version, together with at least five of the principal authors of the
\"  Document (all of its principal authors, if it has less than five).
\"  .PP
\"  C. State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the
\"  Modified Version, as the publisher.
\"  .PP
\"  D. Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.
\"  .PP
\"  E. Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications
\"  adjacent to the other copyright notices.
\"  .PP
\"  F. Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license notice
\"  giving the public permission to use the Modified Version under the
\"  terms of this License, in the form shown in the Addendum below.
\"  Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant Sections
\"  and required Cover Texts given in the Document's license notice.
\"  .PP
\"  H. Include an unaltered copy of this License.
\"  .PP
\"  I. Preserve the section entitled "History", and its title, and add to
\"  it an item stating at least the title, year, new authors, and
\"  publisher of the Modified Version as given on the Title Page.  If
\"  there is no section entitled "History" in the Document, create one
\"  stating the title, year, authors, and publisher of the Document as
\"  given on its Title Page, then add an item describing the Modified
\"  Version as stated in the previous sentence.
\"  .PP
\"  J. Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document for
\"  public access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and likewise
\"  the network locations given in the Document for previous versions
\"  it was based on.  These may be placed in the "History" section.
\"  You may omit a network location for a work that was published at
\"  least four years before the Document itself, or if the original
\"  publisher of the version it refers to gives permission.
\"  .PP
\"  K. In any section entitled "Acknowledgements" or "Dedications",
\"  preserve the section's title, and preserve in the section all the
\"  substance and tone of each of the contributor acknowledgements
\"  and/or dedications given therein.
\"  .PP
\"  L. Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document,
\"  unaltered in their text and in their titles.  Section numbers
\"  or the equivalent are not considered part of the section titles.
\"  .PP
\"  M. Delete any section entitled "Endorsements".  Such a section
\"  may not be included in the Modified Version.
\"  .PP
\"  N. Do not retitle any existing section as "Endorsements"
\"  or to conflict in title with any Invariant Section.
\"  .PP
\"  If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or
\"  appendices that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material
\"  copied from the Document, you may at your option designate some or all
\"  of these sections as invariant.  To do this, add their titles to the
\"  list of Invariant Sections in the Modified Version's license notice.
\"  These titles must be distinct from any other section titles.
\"  .PP
\"  You may add a section entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains
\"  nothing but endorsements of your Modified Version by various
\"  parties--for example, statements of peer review or that the text has
\"  been approved by an organization as the authoritative definition of a
\"  standard.
\"  .PP
\"  You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a
\"  passage of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list
\"  of Cover Texts in the Modified Version.  Only one passage of
\"  Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover Text may be added by (or
\"  through arrangements made by) any one entity.  If the Document already
\"  includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by you or
\"  by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of,
\"  you may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit
\"  permission from the previous publisher that added the old one.
\"  .PP
\"  The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License
\"  give permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or
\"  imply endorsement of any Modified Version.
\"  .PP

\"  5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS
\"  .PP
\"  You may combine the Document with other documents released under this
\"  License, under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified
\"  versions, provided that you include in the combination all of the
\"  Invariant Sections of all of the original documents, unmodified, and
\"  list them all as Invariant Sections of your combined work in its
\"  license notice.
\"  .PP
\"  The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and
\"  multiple identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single
\"  copy.  If there are multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but
\"  different contents, make the title of each such section unique by
\"  adding at the end of it, in parentheses, the name of the original
\"  author or publisher of that section if known, or else a unique number.
\"  Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of
\"  Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.
\"  .PP
\"  In the combination, you must combine any sections entitled "History"
\"  in the various original documents, forming one section entitled
\"  "History"; likewise combine any sections entitled "Acknowledgements",
\"  and any sections entitled "Dedications".  You must delete all sections
\"  entitled "Endorsements."
\"  .PP

\"  6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS
\"  .PP
\"  You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents
\"  released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this
\"  License in the various documents with a single copy that is included in
\"  the collection, provided that you follow the rules of this License for
\"  verbatim copying of each of the documents in all other respects.
\"  .PP
\"  You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute
\"  it individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this
\"  License into the extracted document, and follow this License in all
\"  other respects regarding verbatim copying of that document.
\"  .PP

\"  7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS
\"  .PP
\"  A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate
\"  and independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or
\"  distribution medium, does not as a whole count as a Modified Version
\"  of the Document, provided no compilation copyright is claimed for the
\"  compilation.  Such a compilation is called an "aggregate", and this
\"  License does not apply to the other self-contained works thus compiled
\"  with the Document, on account of their being thus compiled, if they
\"  are not themselves derivative works of the Document.
\"  .PP
\"  If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these
\"  copies of the Document, then if the Document is less than one quarter
\"  of the entire aggregate, the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on
\"  covers that surround only the Document within the aggregate.
\"  Otherwise they must appear on covers around the whole aggregate.
\"  .PP

\"  8. TRANSLATION
\"  .PP
\"  Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may
\"  distribute translations of the Document under the terms of section 4.
\"  Replacing Invariant Sections with translations requires special
\"  permission from their copyright holders, but you may include
\"  translations of some or all Invariant Sections in addition to the
\"  original versions of these Invariant Sections.  You may include a
\"  translation of this License provided that you also include the
\"  original English version of this License.  In case of a disagreement
\"  between the translation and the original English version of this
\"  License, the original English version will prevail.
\"  .PP

\"  9. TERMINATION
\"  .PP
\"  You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except
\"  as expressly provided for under this License.  Any other attempt to
\"  copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Document is void, and will
\"  automatically terminate your rights under this License.  However,
\"  parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under this
\"  License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
\"  parties remain in full compliance.
\"  .PP

\"  10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE
\"  .PP
\"  The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions
\"  of the GNU Free Documentation License from time to time.  Such new
\"  versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may
\"  differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.  See
\"  http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/.
\"  .PP
\"  Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number.
\"  If the Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this
\"  License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the option of
\"  following the terms and conditions either of that specified version or
\"  of any later version that has been published (not as a draft) by the
\"  Free Software Foundation.  If the Document does not specify a version
\"  number of this License, you may choose any version ever published (not
\"  as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation.
\"  .PP

\"  ADDENDUM: How to use this License for your documents
\"  .PP
\"  To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of
\"  the License in the document and put the following copyright and
\"  license notices just after the title page:
\"  .PP
\"      Copyright (c)  YEAR  YOUR NAME.
\"      Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or
\"      modify this document under the terms of the GNU
\"      Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or any later
\"      version published by the Free Software Foundation;
\"      with the Invariant Sections being LIST THEIR TITLES,
\"      with the Front-Cover Texts being LIST, and with the
\"      Back-Cover Texts being LIST.  A copy of the license
\"      is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
\"      Documentation License".
\"  .PP
\"  If you have no Invariant Sections, write "with no Invariant Sections"
\"  instead of saying which ones are invariant.  If you have no
\"  Front-Cover Texts, write "no Front-Cover Texts" instead of
\"  "Front-Cover Texts being LIST"; likewise for Back-Cover Texts.
\"  .PP
\"  If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we
\"  recommend releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of
\"  free software license, such as the GNU General Public License,
\"  to permit their use in free software.

.SH 中文版维护人
.B Yin Huaming <yhmact@pzh-public.sc.cninfo.net>
.SH 中文版最新更新 
.BR 2002/06/23
.SH "中国 Linux 论坛 man 手册页翻译计划"
.BI http://cmpp.linuxforum.net
