.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)biff.1	6.5 (Berkeley) 3/14/91
.\"
.TH BIFF 1 1999-07-31 GNU
.Dd July 31, 1999
.Dt BIFF 1
.Os "Linux NetKit (0.16)"
.Sh "名称 (NAME)"
.Nm biff
.Nd "新到邮件提醒"
.Sh "总览 (SYNOPSIS)"
.Nm biff
.Op Cm ny
.Sh "描述 (DESCRIPTION)"
.Nm Biff
通知系统在当前终端会话期间有新邮件是否提醒你。
.Pp
支持的选项有
.Nm biff :
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It Cm n
禁止新邮件提醒。
.It Cm y
开启新邮件提醒。
.El
.Pp
当新邮件提醒开启后， 如果有邮件到达， 邮件头和邮件正文的头几行将在你的屏幕上打印出来。
通常会在
.Pa \&.login
或者
.Pa \&.profile
文件中加上一个
.Dq Li biff y
命令， 好让每次登录时自动执行。 
.Pp
.Nm Biff
通过
.Xr comsat 8
服务异步执行。 如果此服务没有开启，
.Nm biff
就不做任何事情。 在这种情况下， 或者需要同步提醒， 用
.Xr sh 1
的
.Ar MAIL
变量， 或者
.Xr csh 1
的
.Ar mail
变量。
.Sh "参见 (SEE ALSO)"
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr mail 1 ,
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr comsat 8
.Sh "历史 (HISTORY)"
.Nm
此命令出现于
.Bx 4.0
。
.Sh "错误 (BUGS)"
.Xr su 1
,和 biff 看来并不能一起工作。 这个问题是由于 tty 任然是执行 su 命令的人所有， 这可能导致在改变你的会话的 biff 状态时出现
.Dq Li 拒绝访问错误。
.Pp
请把错误报告给 netbug@ftp.uk.linux.org。 并且附上diffs/patches， 或者编译错误日志等，尽可能完整。
.Sh "[中文版维护人]"
.B 唐友 <tony_ty@263.net>
.Sh "[中文版最新更新]"
.B 2001/8/28
.Sh "[中国Linux论坛man手册页翻译计划]"
.BI http://cmpp.linuxforum.net
