.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\" Chinese version Copyright (c) 苏勇  ysu@gnocis.org
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Kim Letkeman.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)cal.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.TH CAL 1 "June 6, 1993"
.SH NAME
cal \- 显示一个日历
.SH 总览
.B cal 
[
.B -mjy
] 
[
.IR 月份
] 
[
.IR 年份
] 
.SH 描述
显示一个简单的日历.. 
如果没有指定参数, 则显示当前月份.
选项如下所列: 
.IP -m
显示星期一作为一周的第一天..
(缺省为星期日.)
.IP -j
显示儒略历的(Julian)日期 (以 1 为基的天数, 从 1 月 1 日开始计数) .
.IP -y
显示当前年份的日历.. 
.PP
一个单一的参数指定要显示的年份 (1 \- 9999) ;
注意年份必须被完全地指定: 
.B cal 89
.IR 不会
显示1989年的日历. 
两个参数表示月份 (1 \- 12) 和年份. 
如果没有指定参数, 则显示当前月份的日历. 
.PP
一年从Jan 1 (1 月 1 日) 开始.
.PP
格里高利历法改革(Gregorian Reformation)被认为发生于 1752 年 9 月 3 日.
在此之前, 多数国家已经认可这项改革(尽管有一些直到 20 世纪初才认可它).
那天之后的 10 天在这项改革被略去了, 所以那个月的日历有点不太寻常. 
.SH 历史
一个
命令出现于第6版 AT&T UNIX. 
.SH "[中文版维护人]"
.B 苏勇 <ysu@gnocis.org>
.SH "[中文版最新更新]"
.B 2001/07/15
.SH "《中国linux论坛man手册页翻译计划》:"
.BI http://cmpp.linuxforum.net
