.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	from: @(#)finger.1	6.14 (Berkeley) 7/27/91
.\"
.Dd August 15, 1999
.Dt FINGER 1
.Os "Linux NetKit (0.16)"
.Sh NAME
.Nm finger
.Nd 用户信息查找程序
.Sh 总览
.Nm finger
.Op Fl lmsp
.Op Ar user ...
.Op Ar user@host ...
.Sh 描述
The
.Nm finger
显示关于系统用户的信息
.Pp
参数:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl s
.Nm Finger
显示用户的登录名, 真名, 终端名 以及写
状态(如果写被禁止，在终端名后显示一个``*''),
空闲时间,登录时间,办公地点和电话等。
.Pp
登录时间显示为月,天,小时和分钟，如果是超过6个月以前，则
显示年份，而不是小时和分钟。
.Pp
不明设备以及不存在的空闲时间和登录时间显示为一个星号。
.Pp
.It Fl l
产生一个多行显示来描述信息
.Fl s
关于用户家目录，家庭电话，登录脚本，邮件状态和文件的内容
.Dq Pa .plan
和
.Dq Pa .project
和
.Dq Pa .forward
从用户的家目录.
.Pp
11位数字电话号码显示为 ``+N-NNN-NNN-NNNN''.
十位或七位数字可以显示为它的子集。
五位数字电话号码显示为 ``xN-NNNN''.
四位数字电话号码显示为 ``xNNNN''.
.Pp
如果对设备写被禁止, 短语 ``(messages off)''
被附加在有此设备的行后边.
每一个用户有一个条目，用
.Fl l
选项; 如果一个用户多次登录, 终端信息
按每次登录重复显示。.
.Pp
如果什么邮件都没有，邮件信息显示为``No Mail.'', 如果当新邮件来后，
已经查看过信箱，为``Mail last read DDD MMM ## HH:MM YYYY (TZ)'' 
如果有新邮件，则为 ``New mail received ...'',``  Unread since ...''
.Pp
.It Fl p
防止
.Nm finger
.Fl l
选项
显示
.Dq Pa .plan
 和
.Dq Pa .project
文件的内容。
.It Fl m
防止
.Ar user
名字的匹配.
.Ar User
通常是一个登录名; 可是, 也会对用户的真实名字
进行匹配, 除非提供
.Fl m
选项.
所有由
.Nm finger
进行的名字匹配是区分大小写的
.El
.Pp
不指定
.Nm finger
的选项
如果提供操作者的话，
缺省设为
.Fl l
输出风格，否则为
.Fl s
风格.
注意在两种格式中，如果信息不足，
都有一些域可能丢失,
.Pp
如果没有指定参数
.Nm finger
会为当前登录的每个用户打印一个条目.
.Pp
.Nm Finger
可以用来查看远地机器上的用户信息
格式是指定
.Ar user
为
.Dq Li user@host ,
或
.Dq Li @host ,
前者的缺省输出为
.Fl l
风格, 后者的缺省输出为
.Fl s
风格.
.Fl l
是唯一的向远地机器传递的选项.
.Pp
如果标准输出是一个socket 
.Nm finger
会在每个换行符前插入回车符。这是为了处理由以下调用的远程finger请求
.Xr fingerd 8 .
.Sh 参见 
.Xr chfn 1 ,
.Xr passwd 1 ,
.Xr w 1 ,
.Xr who 1
.Sh 历史 
.Nm finger
命令出现在
.Bx 3.0 
.Sh "[中文版维护人]"
hunter77 <tzb@kali.com.cn>
.Sh "[中文版最新更新]"
2001/04/01
.Sh "《中国linux论坛man手册页翻译计划》:"
http://cmpp.linuxforum.net
