.ig \"-*- nroff -*-
Copyright (C) 1989-1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.TH NROFF 1 "28 December 1999" "Groff Version 1.15"
.SH NAME
nroff \- 用 groff 模拟 nroff 命令
.SH "总览 (SYNOPSIS)"
.B nroff
[
.B \-h
]
[
.B \-i
]
[
.BI \-m name
]
[
.BI \-n num
]
[
.BI \-o list
]
[
.BI \-r cn
]
[
.BI \-T name
]
[
.I file\|.\|.\|.
]
.SH "描述 (DESCRIPTION)"
.B nroff
脚本用 groff 模拟
.B nroff
命令。
.B \-T
选项的参数除了
.B ascii
和
.B latin1
以外都将被忽略。
.B \-h
选项同
.B grotty
.B \-h
选项等价。
.BR \-i ，
.BR \-n ，
.BR \-m ，
.B \-o
和
.B \-r
选项同在
.BR troff (1)
中描述的作用是一样的。 另外
.B nroff
忽略
.BR \-e ,
.B \-q
或者
.BR \-s 
选项。
.B \-S
(安全) 和
.B \-U
(不安全) 选项被传给 groff。 
默认情况下
.B \-S
被传给 groff。
.SH "参见 (SEE ALSO)"
.BR groff (1)，
.BR troff (1)，
.BR grotty (1)

.SH "[中文版维护人]"
.B 唐友 <tony_ty@263.net>
.SH "[中文版最新更新]"
.BR 2001/8/28
.SH "[中国Linux论坛man手册页翻译计划]"
.BI http://cmpp.linuxforum.net
