.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 Mark Nudleman
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)more.1	5.15 (Berkeley) 7/29/91
.\"
.\" Revised: Fri Dec 25 15:27:27 1992 by root
.\" 25Dec92: Extensive changes made by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu) to
.\" conform with the more 5.19 currently in use by the Linux community.
.\"
.Dd July 29, 1991 (Modified December 25, 1992)
.Dt MORE 1
.Os "Linux 0.98"
.Sh NAME
.Nm more
.Nd 在显示器上阅读文件的过滤器
.Sh "总览 (SYNOPSIS)"
.Nm more
.Op Fl dlfpcsu
.Op Fl num
.Op +/ pattern
.Op + linenum
.Op Ar
.Sh "描述 (DESCRIPTION)"
.Nm More
是 一个 过滤器, 用于 分页 显示 (一次一屏) 文本. 这个 版本 非常 基本.
用户 应该 知道
.Xr less 1
提供了
.Xr more 1
的 模拟, 并且 做了 增强.
.Sh "选项 (OPTION)"
下面 介绍 命令行选项. 选项 可以 从 环境变量
.Ev MORE
中获取 (要 确保 它们 以 短横线 开头 (``-'')), 但是 命令行选项 能够 覆盖 它们.
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl num
这个选项指定屏幕的行数 (以整数表示).
.It Fl d
让
.Nm more
给 用户 显示 提示信息 "[Press space to continue, 'q' to quit.]", 
当 用户 按下 其他键 时, 显示 "[Press 'h' for instructions.]",
而不是 扬声器 鸣笛.
.It Fl l
.Nm More
在 通常情况下 把
.Ic \&^L
(form feed) 当做 特殊字符, 遇到 这个字符 就会 暂停.
.Fl l
选项 可以 阻止 这种特性.
.It Fl f
使
.Nm more
计数 逻辑行, 而不是 屏幕行 (就是说, 长行 不会 断到 下一行).
.It Fl p
不卷屏, 而是 清除 整个屏幕, 然后 显示 文本.
.It Fl c
不卷屏, 而是 从 每一屏的 顶部 开始 显示 文本, 每 显示完 一行, 
就 清除 这一行的 剩余部分.
.It Fl s
把 重复的空行 压缩成 一个 空行.
.It Fl u
防止下划线.
.It Ic +/
在 显示 每个文件 前, 搜索
.Ic +/
选项 指定的 文本串.
.It Ic +num
从行号
.Ic num 
开始显示.
.El
.Sh "命令 (COMMAND)"
.Nm more
的交互命令基于
.Xr vi  1  .
有些命令 以 一个 十进制数字 开始, 在 下面的描述 里 称之为 k. 后面的 描述中,
^X 指 control-X.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ic
.It Ic h No or Ic ?
帮助: 显示 这些 命令 的 摘要. 你 如果 忘掉 所有 其他的命令, 请记住这个.
.It Ic SPACE
显示 接下来的 k 行文本. 缺省值 是 当前的屏幕大小.
.It Ic z
显示 接下来的 k 行文本. 缺省值 是 当前的屏幕大小. 参数 成为 新的缺省值.
.It Ic RETURN
显示 接下来的 k 行文本. 缺省值 是 1. 参数 成为 新的缺省值.
.It Ic d No or Ic \&^D
卷屏 k 行. 缺省值 是 当前的 卷屏大小, 初始化为 11. 参数 成为 新的缺省值.
.It Xo
.Ic q
.No 或
.Ic Q
.No 或
.Ic INTERRUPT
.Xc
退出.
.It Ic s
向前跳过 k 行文本. 缺省值 是 1.
.It Ic f
向前跳过 k 屏文本. 缺省值 是 1.
.It Ic b No or Ic \&^B
向后跳回 k 屏文本. 缺省值 是 1.
.It Ic '
跳到 上一次 搜索 开始 的 地方.
.It Ic =
显示当前行号.
.It Ic \&/ Ns Ar pattern
搜索 第 k 个 符合 正则表达式的 文本串. 缺省值 是 1.
.It Ic n
搜索 最后 第 k 个 符合 正则表达式的 文本串. 缺省值 是 1.
.It Ic !<cmd> No or Ic :!<cmd>
在子 shell 中执行 <cmd>.
.It Ic v
启动 /usr/bin/vi, 指向 当前行.
.It Ic \&^L
刷新屏幕.
.It Ic :n
跳到 后面 第 k 个 文件.  缺省值 是 1.
.It Ic :p
跳到 前面 第 k 个 文件.  缺省值 是 1.
.It Ic :f
显示 当前文件名 和 行号.
.It Ic \&.
重复上次命令.
.El
.Sh "环境 (ENVIRONMENT)"
.Nm More
利用 下面的 环境变量 (如果 它们 存在):
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Ev MORE
这个变量 设置 你 喜欢的
.Nm more 
选项.
.It Ev SHELL
当前使用的 shell (一般说来 就是 登录 shell).
.It Ev TERM
指定 终端类型, more 用它来 获取 操作屏幕 所需的 终端特性.
.El
.Sh "另见 (SEE ALSO)"
.Xr vi 1
.Xr less 1
.Sh "作者 (AUTHOR)"
Eric Shienbrood, UC Berkeley
.br
Modified by Geoff Peck, UCB to add underlining, single spacing
.br
Modified by John Foderaro, UCB to add -c and MORE environment variable
.Sh "历史 (HISTORY)"
.Nm more
命令 出现在
.Bx 3.0 .
本手册页 描述了
.Nm more
version 5.19 (Berkeley 6/29/88), 目前 它 用在 Linux 社团. 
制作文档时 使用了 其他几个版本 的 手册页, 
并且 根据 源程序 作了 扩充.
.Sh "[中文版维护人]"
徐明 <xuming@users.sourceforge.net>
.Sh "[中文版最新更新]"
2003/05/13
.Sh "《中国Linux论坛man手册页翻译计划》"
http://cmpp.linuxforum.net
