.ig
Copyright (C) 1989-2001 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.TH NROFF 1 "23 September 2003" "Groff Version 1.18.1"
.SH NAME
nroff \- 用 groff 模拟 nroff 命令
.SH "总览 SYNOPSIS"
.nr a \n(.j
.ad l
.nr i \n(.i
.in +\w'\fBnroff 'u
.ti \niu
.B nroff
.de OP
.ie \\n(.$-1 .RI "[\ \fB\\$1\fP" "\\$2" "\ ]"
.el .RB "[\ " "\\$1" "\ ]"
..
.OP \-h
.OP \-i
.OP \-m name
.OP \-n num
.OP \-o list
.OP \-p
.OP \-r cn
.OP \-S
.OP \-t
.OP \-T name
.OP \-U
.OP \-v
.RI "[\ " "file" "\ .\|.\|.\ ]"
.br
.ad \na
.SH "描述 DESCRIPTION"
.B nroff
shell 脚本用 groff 来模拟
.B nroff
命令。
.B -T
选项允许的有效参数是
.BR ascii ,
.BR ascii8 ,
.BR latin1 ,
.BR utf8 ,
.BR nippon ,
以及
.B cp1047
。如果参数无效，或者没有给出
.BR \-T
选项，
.B nroff
检测当前语言环境来选择一个默认的输出设备。它首先使用
.B locale
程序，然后检测环境变量
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
和
.BR LANG ,
最后是
.B LESSCHARSET
环境变量。
.PP
.B \-h
和
.B \-c
选项与
.BR grotty 
的
.B \-h
(在输出中使用tab) 和
.B \-c
(使用老式的输出方案而不是 SGR 转义序列) 选项等价。
.BR \-C ,
.BR \-i ,
.BR \-n ,
.BR \-m ,
.BR \-o ,
和
.B \-r
选项的效果在
.BR troff (1)
中详述。另外，
.B nroff
忽略
.BR \-e ,
.BR \-q ,
和
.BR \-s
(在
.BR troff 
中没有实现) 选项，没有任何提示。
.B \-p
(pic),
.B \-t
(tbl),
.B \-S
(safer), 和
.B \-U
(unsafe) 选项被传给
.BR groff . 
.B \-v
显示版本号。
.SH "环境 ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
.SM
.B GROFF_BIN_PATH
一个冒号分隔的路径列表，在搜索 PATH 之前从中搜索
.B groff
可执行文件。如果没有设置，将使用 `/usr/bin'.
.SH "注意 NOTES"
这个 shell 脚本一般用于配合
.BR man (1)
使用，所以不输出警告信息。nroff 样式的字符定义 (在文件 tty-char.tmac 中) 会被读取，来模拟不可显示的符号。
.SH "参见 SEE ALSO"
.BR groff (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR grotty (1)
.SH "[中文版维护人]"
.\" 译者
.\" 唐友 <tony_ty@263.net>
.\" 翻译日期
.\" 2001.08.28
.B bbbush <bbbush@163.com>
.SH "[中文版最新更新]"
.B 2003.11.22
.SH "《中国linux论坛man手册页翻译计划》:"
.BI http://cmpp.linuxforum.net 
.
.\" Local Variables:
.\" mode: nroff
.\" End:
