.\" Man page for Octave
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1996, 1997 John W. Eaton
.\"
.\" This file is part of Octave.
.\"
.\" Octave is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" Octave is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with Octave; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA
.\" 02111-1307, USA. 
.\"
.TH Octave 1 "Jan 8 1996"
.SH NAME
octave \- 用于数值计算的高级交互式语言
.SH "SYNOPSIS 总览"
.nf
octave [options]
.fi
.SH "OPTIONS 选项"
octave 全部命令行选项可以通过运行命令
.nf

    octave --help

.fi
来查看。
.SH "DESCRIPTION 描述"
Octave 是一种高级语言，主要用于数值计算。它提供了极为方便的命令行界面，用数值的方式解决线性和非线性问题。
.SH "DOCUMENTATION 文档"
Octave 主要的文档以 Texinfo (GNU 文档系统) 写成，可以用同样的文件产生手册的在线版本和打印版本。
.PP
你可以在交互运行 Octave 时执行命令
.nf

    octave:13> help -i

.fi
来阅读 Octave 文档的在线版本，它将用到 GNU Emacs 的 info 模式；或者也可以直接运行单独的程序，例如 info 或者 xinfo。
.SH BUGS
提交 Octave 错误报告的最佳方法是在交互运行 Octave 时执行命令
.nf

     octave:13> bug_report

.fi
。这将创建一个错误报告的模板文件，并打开一个编辑器。编辑完毕后，邮件将发送到 bug-octave 邮件列表。
.PP
如果不能使用 bug_report 命令，可以用其他方法将邮件发送到
.B bug-octave@bevo.che.wisc.edu
邮件列表。请阅读 Octave 手册页中的 `Bugs' 章节，学习如何提交错误报告来使 Octave 的维护者修正问题。
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
John W. Eaton
Department of Chemical Engineering
University of Wisconsin-Madison
Madison, WI 53706
USA
<jwe@bevo.che.wisc.edu>
.fi
