.\" Man page for octave-bug
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1996 - 2000 John W. Eaton
.\"
.\" This file is part of Octave.
.\"
.\" Octave is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" Octave is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with Octave; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA
.\" 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.\" This page was contributed by Dirk Eddelbuettel <edd@debian.org>
.\" 
.TH octave-bug 1 "6 March 2000" GNU
.SH NAME
octave-bug \- 报告 GNU Octave 中的 bug
.SH "SYNOPSIS 总览"
.B octave-bug
.RB [\| \-s
.IR subject \|]
.SH "DESCRIPTION 描述"
.B octave-bug
是一个 shell 脚本，用于以一种标准的格式撰写有关 Octave 的 bug 报告并发送。
.B octave-bug
通常由 Octave 命令
.B bug_report
启动，这个命令只能在 Octave 内部，以交互方式调用。这种方式是提交 Octave 错误报告的最佳放方式。它创建一个错误报告的空模板文件，并用一个编辑器打开它。编辑完成后，错误报告将被发送到 bug-octave 邮件列表 (这样做的前提是你的系统可以发送邮件)。但是，用户也可以在 Octave 之外使用 \fBoctave-bug\fR 命令。
.PP
请阅读 Octave 手册页中的 `Bugs' 章节，学习如何提交错误报告来使 Octave 的维护者修正问题。如果不能使用 bug_report 命令，就直接将邮件发送到 bug-octave 邮件列表，就是 bug-octave@bevo.che.wisc.edu 。
.SH "OPTIONS 选项"
.TP
.BI -s\  subject
指定错误报告的主题行。主题中的空格必须被引用。
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES 环境变量"
.B 
octave-bug 
使用环境变量
.BR USER, 
.BR EDITOR, 
和
.B PAGER 
从而定制工具
.SH "VERSION 版本"
本文档最后一次校订与 Octave 2.0.16 同时发布。
.SH "SEE ALSO 参见"
.BR octave (1),
.BR bashbug (1)     
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
John W. Eaton
Department of Chemical Engineering
University of Wisconsin-Madison
Madison, WI 53706
USA
<jwe@bevo.che.wisc.edu>       
