.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	from: @(#)rlogin.1	6.19 (Berkeley) 7/27/91
.\"
.Dd August 15, 1999
.Dt RLOGIN 1
.Os "Linux NetKit (0.17)"
.Sh NAME
.Nm rlogin
.Nd 远程注册
.Sh SYNOPSIS(总览)
.Ar rlogin
.Op Fl 8EKLdx
.Op Fl e Ar char
.Op Fl l Ar username
.Ar host
.Sh DESCRIPTION(描述)
.Nm Rlogin
在远程主机
.Ar host  
上开始 一个 终端会话.
.Pp
本程序 和文档 接受 标准的 伯克利
.Pa rhosts
授权.
选项 如下:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl 8
.Fl 8
选项 允许 进行 8 位的 输入 数据 传送; 否则在 远程主机 未使用
与 ^S/^Q 不同的 控制 字符 之前, 所有的 奇偶 校验位 都会 被清除.
.It Fl E
.Fl E
选项 阻塞(stops) 一些 被识别 为转意 字符 的字符.
当 使用了
.Fl 8
选项时, 这样 可以 提供 完全 透明的 连接.
.It Fl K
.Fl K
选项 关闭 所有的 Kerberos 安全 鉴别.
.It Fl L
.Fl L
选项 允许 rlogin 会话 以 ``litout'' 
模式 运行(参见
.Xr tty 4 )
.It Fl d
.Fl d
选项 启动 套接字 调试(参见
.Xr setsockopt 2 )
, 在 TCP 类型 的连接中, 套接字 用于 提供 与远程 主机的 通讯.
.It Fl e
.Fl e
选项 允许 用户 指定 转意 字符, 缺省是
``~''.
可以 直接 使用 字符, 也可以 使用 八进制值 进行 指定, 八进制 格式为:
\ennn.
.It Fl k
.Fl k
选项 要求 rlogin 在从 远程 接受 许可证时, 使用
.Ar realm
中定义的 realm, 而不是 
.Xr krb_realmofhost  3  
中定义的 realm.
.It Fl x
.Fl x
选项 使通过 rlogin 会话 进行的 数据
传送 都要 采用
.Tn DES
加密.
这可能 会影响 响应 时间和
.Tn CPU
的利用, 但 提高了 安全性.
.El
.Pp
使用 格式为 ``<escape char>.'' 的一行 可以 断开 与远程 主机 的连接.
类似的, ``<escape char>^Z'' 这样 的行 可以 延迟
.Nm rlogin
会话, ``<escape char><delayed-suspend char(延时字符)>'' 会延迟 rlogin 发送 
部分, 但允许 远程 主机 输出.
缺省 情况下, (``~'') 是 转意字符, control-Y (``^Y'') 是 延时字符.
.Pp
由于 所有的 回应 都在 远方 发生, 所以
.Nm rlogin
是 透明的 (除了延时外).
通过 使用 ^S/^Q 进行 流量 控制, 即使 满负载的 输入/输出
也可以 被 正确的 解释 处理.
.Sh KERBEROS AUTHENTICATION(Kerberos鉴别)
每个 用户 都应该 在他的 主目录 下的
.Pa .klogin
文件中 存放 私人的 授权 列表,
文件中的 每一行 包含 一个 如下 格式的 Kerberos principal 负责人名:
.Ar principal.instance@realm  .
如果 用户 被鉴别 是
.Pa .klogin 
中的 principal 之一, 就允许 此帐号 进行 存取 访问.
如果 没有
.Pa .klogin
文件, 就采用
.Ar accountname.@localrealm
进行 存取 控制.
否则 就好像 远程的
.Xr login  1 
一样, 需要 用户 提供 用户名 和口令 进行 身份 识别.
为避免 某些 安全 问题,
.Pa .klogin
文件 必须为 远程 用户 拥有.
.Pp
如果 Kerberos 鉴别 失败, 在给出 一个 警告 消息 之后, 
就使用 标准的 Berkeley(伯克利)
.Nm rlogin .
.Sh ENVIRONMENT(环境)
.Nm rlogin 
使用 如下的 环境变量:
.Bl -tag -width TERM
.It Ev TERM
: 定义 用户的 终端类型.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO(参考)
.Xr rsh 1 ,
.Xr kerberos 3 ,
.Xr krb_sendauth 3 ,
.Xr krb_realmofhost 3
.Sh HISTORY(历史)
.Nm rlogin
最先 出现在 4.2 中.
.Sh BUGS(补丁)
.Nm Rlogin
在 不远的 将来 会被
.Xr telnet  1
代替, 这样 可以 使用 更多的 环境控制.
.Pp
