.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" scp.1
.\"
.\" Author: Tatu Ylonen <ylo@cs.hut.fi>
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Tatu Ylonen <ylo@cs.hut.fi>, Espoo, Finland
.\"                    All rights reserved
.\"
.\" Created: Sun May  7 00:14:37 1995 ylo
.\"
.\" $OpenBSD: scp.1,v 1.27 2003/03/28 10:11:43 jmc Exp $
.\"
.Dd September 25, 1999
.Dt SCP 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm scp
.Nd 安全复制(远程文件复制程序)
.Sh 总览 SYNOPSIS
.Nm scp
.Bk -words
.Op Fl pqrvBC1246
.Op Fl F Ar ssh_config
.Op Fl S Ar program
.Op Fl P Ar port
.Op Fl c Ar cipher
.Op Fl i Ar identity_file
.Op Fl l Ar limit
.Op Fl o Ar ssh_option
.Sm off
.Oo
.Op Ar user@
.Ar host1 No :
.Oc Ns Ar file1
.Sm on
.Op Ar ...
.Sm off
.Oo
.Op Ar user@
.Ar host2 No :
.Oc Ar file2
.Sm on
.Ek
.Sh 描述 DESCRIPTION
.Nm
在网络中的主机间进行文件复制。
它用
.Xr ssh 1
来传输及验证数据，提供与
.Xr ssh 1 相同的安全保护。
它不象
.Xr rcp 1 ,
.Nm
会根据需要询问口令。
.Pp
在任何文件名中都可以包含主机名和用户名，用来指定从/向该主机复制此文件。
Copies between two remote hosts are permitted.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c Ar cipher
Selects the cipher to use for encrypting the data transfer.
This option is directly passed to
.Xr ssh 1 .
.It Fl i Ar identity_file
Selects the file from which the identity (private key) for RSA
authentication is read.
This option is directly passed to
.Xr ssh 1 .
.It Fl l Ar limit
Limits the used bandwidth, specified in Kbit/s.
.It Fl p
Preserves modification times, access times, and modes from the
original file.
.It Fl r
递归复制整个目录。
.It Fl v
详细模式。该选项使
.Nm
和
.Xr ssh 1
打印出关于运行情况的调试信息。在进行调试连接、验证和配置问题时，这会很有用的
.It Fl B
用批模式(避免重复询问口令)。
.It Fl q
Disables the progress meter.
.It Fl C
允许压缩。向
.Xr ssh 1
传递
.Fl C
标志以允许压缩。
.It Fl F Ar ssh_config
Specifies an alternative
per-user configuration file for
.Nm ssh .
This option is directly passed to
.Xr ssh 1 .
.It Fl P Ar port
Specifies the port to connect to on the remote host.
Note that this option is written with a capital
.Sq P ,
because
.Fl p
is already reserved for preserving the times and modes of the file in
.Xr rcp 1 .
.It Fl S Ar program
Name of
.Ar program
to use for the encrypted connection.
The program must understand
.Xr ssh 1
options.
.It Fl o Ar ssh_option
Can be used to pass options to
.Nm ssh
in the format used in
.Xr ssh_config 5 .
This is useful for specifying options
for which there is no separate
.Nm scp
command-line flag.
.It Fl 1
Forces
.Nm
to use protocol 1.
.It Fl 2
Forces
.Nm
to use protocol 2.
.It Fl 4
Forces
.Nm
to use IPv4 addresses only.
.It Fl 6
Forces
.Nm
to use IPv6 addresses only.
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Nm
exits with 0 on success or >0 if an error occurred.
.Sh 作者 AUTHORS
Timo Rinne <tri@iki.fi> 和 Tatu Ylonen <ylo@cs.hut.fi>
.Sh 历史 HISTORY
.Nm
基于University of California BSD 的
.Xr rcp 1
源代码
.Sh 参见 SEE ALSO
.Xr rcp 1 ,
.Xr sftp 1 ,
.Xr ssh 1 ,
.Xr ssh-add 1 ,
.Xr ssh-agent 1 ,
.Xr ssh-keygen 1 ,
.Xr ssh_config 5 ,
.Xr sshd 8
.Sh "[中文版维护人]"
meaculpa <meaculpa@21cn.com>
.Sh "[中文版最新更新]"
2000/12/08
.Sh "《中国linux论坛man手册页翻译计划》:"
http://cmpp.linuxforum.net 
