.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Free Software Foundation
.\" See section COPYING for conditions for redistribution
.TH size 1 "5 November 1991" "cygnus support" "GNU Development Tools"
.de BP
.sp
.ti \-.2i
\(**
..

.SH NAME
size \- 列出段节大小和总共大小

.SH "总览 (SYNOPSIS)"
.hy 0
.na
.TP
.B size
.RB "[\|" \-A \||\| \-B \||\| \c
.BI "\-\-format=" compatibility\c
\&\|]
.RB "[\|" \-\-help "\|]" 
.RB "[\|" \-d \||\| \-o \||\| \-x\c
\||\|\c
.BI "\-\-radix=" number\c
\&\|]
.RB "[\|" \c
.BI "\-\-target=" bfdname\c
\&\|]
.RB "[\|" \-V \||\| \-\-version "\|]"  
.I objfile\c
\&.\|.\|.
.ad b
.hy 1

.SH "描述 (DESCRIPTION)"
GNU 的 \c
.B size\c
\& 程序 列出 参数列表
.I objfile
中, 各 目标文件(object) 或 存档库文件(archive)
的 段节(section)大小 \(em\& 以及 总共大小.
默认情况下, 对 每个 目标文件 或 存档库中的 每个模块 产生 一行 输出.

.SH "选项 (OPTIONS)"
.TP
.B \-A
.TP
.B \-B
.TP
.BI "\-\-format " "compatibility"
使用 这几个 选项, 你 可以 让 GNU
.B size
的 输出效果 类似于
\& System V
.B size
\& (使用 `\|\c
.B \-A\c
\|',
或 `\|\c
.B \-\-format=sysv\c
\|'), 或 Berkeley 
.B size\c
\& (使用 `\|\c
.B \-B\c
\|', 或 `\|\c
.B \-\-format=berkeley\c
\|'). 默认情况下 是 类似于 Berkeley 的 单行格式.  

.TP
.B \-\-help
简述 参数和选项.

.TP
.B \-d
.TP
.B \-o
.TP
.B \-x
.TP
.BI "\-\-radix " "number"
使用 这几个 选项, 你 可以 让 各个 段节 的 大小 以 十进制 (`\|\c
.B \-d\c
\|', 或 `\|\c
.B \-\-radix 10\c
\|'); 八进制
(`\|\c
.B \-o\c
\|', 或 `\|\c
.B \-\-radix 8\c
\|'); 或 十六进制 (`\|\c
.B \-x\c
\|', 或
`\|\c
.B \-\-radix 16\c
\|') 数字 的 格式 显示. `\|\c
.B \-\-radix \c
.I number\c
\&\c
\|' 只支持 三个数值参数 (8, 10, 16). 总共大小 以 两种进制 给出; `\|\c
.B \-d\c
\|' 或 `\|\c
.B \-x\c
\|' 的 十进制 和 十六进制 输出, 或 `\|\c
.B \-o\c
\|' 的 八进制 和 十六进制 输出.

.TP
.BI "\-\-target " "bfdname"
你 可以 通过 参数
.I bfdname
指定
.I objfile
的 目标格式. 这个选项 可能 不那么 必要; 因为
.I size
能够 自动 识别 许多 格式. 参见 
.BR objdump(1) 
列出 的 有效格式.

.TP
.B \-V
.TP
.B \-\-version
显示 \c
.B size\c
\& 的 版本信息.

.SH "另见 (SEE ALSO)"
.BR info 
的
.RB "`\|" binutils "\|'" 
项; 
.IR "The GNU Binary Utilities" ,
 Roland H. Pesch (October 1991); 
.BR ar "(" 1 "),"
.BR objdump ( 1 ).

.SH "版权 (COPYING)"
Copyright (c) 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.PP
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.
.PP
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.
.PP
Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.

.SH "[中文版维护人]"
.B 徐明 <xuming@users.sourceforge.net>
.SH "[中文版最新更新]"
.BR 2004/02/22
.SH "《中国Linux论坛man手册页翻译计划》"
.BI http://cmpp.linuxforum.net



