.\"
.\" Copyright 1992, 1993, Geoff Kuenning, Granada Hills, CA
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All modifications to the source code must be clearly marked as
.\"    such.  Binary redistributions based on modified source code
.\"    must be clearly marked as modified versions in the documentation
.\"    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Geoff Kuenning and
.\"      other unpaid contributors.
.\" 5. The name of Geoff Kuenning may not be used to endorse or promote
.\"    products derived from this software without specific prior
.\"    written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY GEOFF KUENNING AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL GEOFF KUENNING OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH SQ 1 LOCAL
.SH NAME
sq \- 压缩一个排过序的单词列表
unsq \- 解压一个排过序的单词列表

.SH "总览 (SYNOPSIS)"
.B sq
< infile > outfile
.PP
.B unsq
< infile > outfile

.SH "描述 (DESCRIPTION)"
.I sq
压缩 一个 排过序的 单词 列表 (一个 字典). 比如:
.RS
sort /usr/dict/words | sq | compress > words.sq.Z
.RE
会 大概 以 4 为 因数 压缩 字典.
.PP
.I unsq
解压
.I sq
的 输出. 比如:
.RS
compress -d < words.sq.Z | unsq | sort -f -o words
.RE
会 解压 
.I sq
压缩 的 字典.
.P
根据 文档 描述, 它 通过 省略 相同 的 词头 来 压缩, 用 一个 单独 的 字符 取代
这个 词头, 这个 字符 对 与 前一个词 相同的 字符数 进行 编码.
词头 的 大小 用 一个 编了码 的 可打印 的 字符 表示:
0-9 代表 0-9, A-Z 代表 10-35, a-z 代表 36-61.

.SH "作者 (AUTHOR)"
Mike Wexler

.SH "参见 (SEE ALSO)"
compress(1), sort(1).

.SH "[中文版维护人]"
.B 唐友 \<tony_ty@263.net\>
.SH "[中文版最新更新]"
.BR 2001/9/20
.SH "[中国Linux论坛man手册页翻译计划]"
.BI http://cmpp.linuxforum.net
