.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Modified from
.\"     @(#)uuencode.1	6.9 (Berkeley) 4/23/91
.\"
.TH uuencode 1
.SH NAME
uuencode \- 对二进制文件编码
.PP
uudecode \- 解码由 uuencode 创建的文件

.SH "总览 (SYNOPSIS)"
.B uuencode
[\-m] [ file ] name
.PP
.B uudecode
[-o outfile] [ file ]...

.SH "描述 (DESCRIPTION)"
.I Uuencode
和
.I uudecode
用于 在 某些 只能 传输 简单 ASCII 数据 的 信道 上 传送 二进制文件.
.PP
.I Uuencode
读入 文件
.I file
(缺省为 标准输入)的 内容, 编码后 的 文件 送往 标准输出.
编码 只使用 可显示 ASCII 字符, 同时 将 文件访问模式 和 目标文件名
.I name
存放在 目标文件 中, 供
.I uudecode
使用. 如果 目标文件名
.I name
是 标准输出
.I /dev/stdout ,
Uuencode 将把 生成结果 送往 标准输出. 缺省标准 使用 UU 编码格式.
如果 在 命令行上 指定了 
.I \-m
选项, Uuencode 就 改用
.B base64
编码格式.

.PP
.I Uudecode
把 uuencode 编码过的 文件
.I file
(缺省是 标准输入) 解码成 原来的 形式. 产生的 文件 命名为
.I name
(如果 使用了 \-o 选项, 文件名 就是
.I outfile 
), 拥有 原来的 文件访问模式, 但会 去除 setuid
和 可执行 位. 如果
.I outfile
或
.I name
是 /dev/stdout, Uudecode 将把 生成结果 送往 标准输出.
.I Uudecode
忽略 任何(多余的) 前后行. 它 能够 自动 识别 编码格式, 并采用 相应的 解码方案.

.SH "例子 (EXAMPLES)"
下面的 例子 显示了 打包 一棵 源文件树, 压缩, UU 编码, 然后 寄给
另一个 系统 的 用户.
在 目的地 运行
.I uudecode
时 将 产生 ``src_tree.tar.Z'' 文件, 展开 这个 文件 就可以 还原成
原来的 文件树.
.PP
.IP
.nf
tar cf \- src_tree \&| compress \&|
uuencode src_tree.tar.Z \&| mail sys1!sys2!user
.fi
.LP
.SH "另见 (SEE ALSO)"
compress(1), mail(1), uucp(1), uuencode(5)
.SH "标准 (STANDARDS)"
本实现遵循 P1003.2b/D11.
.SH BUGS
如果 使用了 \-o 选项 的 同时 要求 解码 一个以上 的 文件
.I file ,
或者 这些 已经 编码的 文件 中, 出现了 相同的 文件名
.I name , 
其结果 可能 不是 你 想要的.

.PP
用 UU 格式 编码 的 文件 增大 37%, 用 base64 格式 (3编码成4字节, 加上控制信息)
编码 的 文件 增大 35%

.SH "历史 (HISTORY)"
.I uuencode
命令始于 BSD 4.0.

.SH "[中文版维护人]"
.B 徐明 <xuming@users.sourceforge.net>
.SH "[中文版最新更新]"
.BR 2003/05/13
.SH "《中国Linux论坛man手册页翻译计划》"
.BI http://cmpp.linuxforum.net
