.TH VT\-IS\-UTF8 1 "10 Aug 1998" "控制台工具" "Linux 用户手册"

.SH NAME
vt-is-UTF8 \- check whether current VT is in UTF8- or byte-mode.
检查当前VT是否处于VTF8模式或是字节模式.

.SH 总览
.BI "vt-is-UTF8 [" -h | --help "] [" -V | --version "] [" -q | --quiet ]

.SH 描述
.B vt-is-UTF8
checks whether the current VT is in UTF8 mode, by writing (and erasing
afterwards) a 3-byte-long UTF8 sequence, and looking how much chars where
displayed by the console driver.
.B vt-is-UTF8
检查当前VT是否处于 UTF8 模式, 其方式是写(并且随后擦除)
一个 3 字节的 UTF8 序列, 然后察看控制台驱动展示了多少个字符. 

A message telling in which mode the console is is then written to stdout
(except if the
.I --quiet
option was given).
然后会在标准输出上给出一个信息, 指出控制台所用模式(除非给出了
.I --quiet
选项).

If the 
.I --quiet
option is not given, the value returned is 1 if an error occurs, else 0.
在有错误发生时, 如果没有选取
.I --quiet
选项, 返回值将是 1 , 否则将是 0 .

.SH 选项
.TP
.I -h --help
display version number, a short help message and exit.
展示版本号, 以及一个简短的帮助信息, 然后退出. 

.TP
.I -V --version
display version number and exit.
展示版本号然后退出. 

.TP
.I -q --quiet
do not print on stdout in with mode we are, but return the state as
exit-status 1 if in UTF8-mode, 0 if in byte-mode. In case of error, 0 is
returned and a message is displayed on stderr.
不在标准输出上打印所处模式, 但是返回一个状态, 对于 UTF8 模式该退出状态为 1 ,
而对于字节模式该状态为 0 . 如果发生错误, 也返回 0 , 并且送给标准错误一个信息. 

.SH BUGS
The check should be done by directly asking the kernel, which is not possible
as of kernels 2.0.x.
模式的检查可能应该通过直接请求内核来进行, 但从内核 2.0.x 开始这就不可能了.

As of kernel 2.0.35, the byte-mode is sometimes erroneously detected
as UTF8-mode, after switching from a 512-chars font to a 256-chars
font.  This is probably a console-driver bug.
从 2.0.35 的内核开始, 在做了从 512 字符字体到 256 字符字体的切换后, 
字节模式有时会被错误地认为是 UTF8 模式. 这或许就是一个控制台驱动的 bug . 

.SH "另见"

.BR unicode_start (1),
.BR unicode_stop (1).

