.\" apm.1 -- 
.\" Created: Wed Jan 10 14:54:03 1996 by r.faith@ieee.org
.\" Revised: Sun Apr 21 16:37:43 1996 by r.faith@ieee.org
.\" Copyright 1996 Rickard E. Faith (r.faith@ieee.org)
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" 
.TH APM 1 "10 Jan 1996" "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
apm \- query Advanced Power Management (APM) BIOS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B apm [ \-vVmsS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B apm
reads
.I /proc/apm
and presents the output in a human-readable format.  Since primarily
battery status information is provided, this command is most useful on
laptops with a compliant APM BIOS.
.B apm
also allows the machine to be put into standby or suspend mode.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print the
.B apm
program version and exit immediately.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Print information about the APM BIOS version and Linux APM driver version.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-minutes
Print total minutes remaining instead of using an hh:mm format.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-suspend
Put the machine into suspend mode if possible.
.TP
.B \-S, \-\-standby
Put the machine into standby mode if possible.
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-ignore
Tell the system to ignore system-generated APM suspend and standby events
when on AC power.  This may be useful to users who have laptops and want
APM events when on battery power, but not when on AC power.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-noignore
Tell the system 
.B not 
to ignore system-generated APM suspend and standby events
when on AC power.  This is the default mode; this option is provided as a
way to undo a prior "apm -i" call.
.TP
.SH BUGS
This program requires a post-1.3.57 kernel.  This program will not work
with older kernels or with the APM patches, since the format for
.I /proc/apm
has changed radically.
.SH FILES
.I /proc/apm
.br
.I linux/drivers/char/apm_bios.c
.SH AUTHOR
This program was written by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu) and may be freely
distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License.  There is
ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY for this program.  The current maintainer is Avery
Pennarun (apenwarr@worldvisions.ca).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xapm "(1), "apmd (8)
