.\" free.1 - manpage for the free(1) utility, part of procps
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2003 Robert Love
.\" Licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License, v2
.TH FREE 1 "10 Aug 2003" "Linux" "Linux User's Manual"
.SH NAME
free \- display information about free and used memory on the system

.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "free [\-b|-k|-m|-g] [\-l] [\-o] [\-t] [\-s " delay " ] [\-c " count " ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR free (1)
displays the total amount of free and used physical memory and swap space in
the system, as well as the buffers and cache consumed by the kernel.

.SH OPTIONS
Normal invocation of 
.BR free (1)
does not require any options.  The output, however, can be fine-tuned by
specifying one or more of the following flags:
.TP
.B \-b, \-\^\-bytes
Display output in bytes.
.TP
.B \-k, \-\^\-kb
Display output in kilobytes (KB).  This is the default.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\^\-mb
Display output in megabytes (MB).
.TP
.B \-g, \-\^\-gb
Display output in gigabytes (GB).
.TP
.B \-l, \-\^\-lowhigh
Display detailed information about low vs. high memory usage.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\^\-old
Use old format.  Specifically, do not display -/+ buffers/cache.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\^\-total
Display total summary for physical memory + swap space.
.TP
.BI \-c " n" ", \-\^\-count=" n
Display statistics
.I n
times, then exit.  Used in conjunction with the
.I -s
flag.  Default is to display only once, unless
.I -s
was specified, in which case default is to repeat until interrupted.
.TP
.BI \-s " n" ", \-\^\-repeat=" n
Repeat, pausing every
.I n
seconds in-between.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\^\-version
Display version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-\^\-help
Display usage information and exit

.SH FILES
.IR /proc/meminfo " \-\- memory information"

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ps (1),
.BR top (1),
.BR vmstat (1)

.SH AUTHORS
Written by Robert Love.

The procps package is maintained by Robert Love and was created by Michael
Johnson.

Send bug reports to <procps-list@redhat.com>.
