.TH GEDIT l "05 Jan 2003"
.SH NAME
\fBgedit\fP \- simple text editor for GNOME

The gedit application is a simple text editor. You can use gedit to create and edit text files. You can use gedit plugins to perform a variety of tasks related to text-editing from within the gedit window.

.SH SYNTAX
.B gedit
.RI [--help]
.RI [--debug [-section]]
.RI [--new-window]
.RI [--new-document]
.RI [--quit]
.RI [filename(s)...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gedit
is a text editor for the GNOME Desktop.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Prints the command line options.
.TP
\fB\-\-debug[-section]\fR
Runs gedit in debug mode. In debug mode function names are dumped to the console when they are invoked. Specific sections for debugging are allowed.  The sections are: window, commands, document, file, plugins, prefs, print, search,
undo, view and recent. Run `gedit \-\-help' for more information.
.TP
\fB\-\-new\-window\fR
Create a new toplevel window in an existing instance of gedit.
.TP
\fB\-\-new\-document\fR
Create a new document in an existing instance of gedit.
.TP
\fB\-\-quit\fR
Quit an existing instance of gedit.
.TP
\fBfilename(s)...\fR
Specifies the file to open when gedit starts - if this is not specified, gedit will
load a blank file with an Untitled label. Multiple files can be loaded if they are
separated by spaces.  
gedit also supports handling of remote files.  For example, you can pass the location of a webpage to gedit, like "http://www.gnome.org", or load a file from a FTP server,
like "ftp://ftp.gnome.org/robots.txt".
.SH PIPES
Gedit accepts pipes, so it can be run after another command to load the output into
gedit. For example :
.TP
ls -l | gedit
.PB
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug, please report it at http://bugzilla.gnome.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=gedit.

.SH AUTHORS
Paolo Maggi (maggi@athena.polito.it)
.TP
James Willcox (jwillcox@cs.indiana.edu)
.TP
Federico Mena Quintero (federico@ximian.com)
.TP
Chema Celorio (chema@celorio.com)

