.TH KILLALL 1 "March 25, 2001" "Linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
killall \- kill processes by name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.B killall
.RB [ \-d , \-\-sid ]
.RB [ \-c , \-\-context ] 
.RB [ \-e , --exact ]
.RB [ \-g , \-\-process-group ]
.RB [ \-i , \-\-interactive ]
.RB [ \-q , \-\-quiet ]
.RB [ \-s , \-\-signal 
.IR signal ]
.RB [ \-v , \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-w , \-\-wait ]
.RB [ \-V, \-\-version ]
.RB [ \-\- ]
.I name ...
.br
.B killall
.RB \-l
.br
.B killall
.RB \-V, \-\-version
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B killall
sends a signal to all processes running any of the specified commands. If no
signal name is specified, SIGTERM is sent.
.PP
Signals can be specified either by name (e.g. \fB\-HUP\fP) or by number
(e.g. \fB\-1\fP). 
.PP
If the command name contains a slash (\fB/\fP), processes executing that
particular file will be selected for killing, independent of their name.
.PP
\fBkillall\fP returns a zero return code if at least one process has been 
killed for each ilisted command. \fBkillall\fP returns zero otherwise.
.PP
A \fBkillall\fP process never kills itself (but may kill other \fBkillall\fP
processes).
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-e\fP, \fB\-\-exact\fP"
Require an exact match for very long names. If a command name is longer
than 15 characters, the full name may be unavailable (i.e. it is swapped
out). In this case, \fBkillall\fP will kill everything that matches within
the first 15 characters. With \fB\-e\fP, such entries are skipped.
\fBkillall\fP prints a message for each skipped entry 
if \fB\-v\fP is specified in addition to \fB\-e\fP,
.IP "\fB\-g\fP, \fB\-\-process-group\fP"
Kill the process group to which the process belongs. The kill signal is only
sent once per group, even if multiple processes belonging to the same process
group were found.
.IP "\fB\-i\fP, \fB\-\-interactive\fP"
Interactively ask for confirmation before killing.
.IP "\fB\-l\fP, \fB\-\-list\fP"
List all known signal names.
.IP "\fB\-q\fP, \fB\-\-quiet\fP"
Do not complain if no processes were killed.
.IP "\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-\-verbose\fP"
Report if the signal was successfully sent.
.IP "\fB\-V\fP, \fB\-\-version\fP"
Display version information.
.IP "\fB\-w\fP, \fB\-\-wait\fP"
Wait for all killed processes to die. \fBkillall\fP checks once per second if
any of the killed processes still exist and only returns if none are left.
Note that \fBkillall\fP may wait forever if the signal was ignored, had no
effect, or if the process stays in zombie state.
.IP \fB\-d\fP
(Flask only) Specify SID: kill only processes with given SID. Mutually exclusive
with \fB-c\fP argument.  Must precede other arguments on command line.
.IP \fB\-c\fP
(Flask only) Specify security context: kill only processes with given security context.
Mutually exclusive with \fB-d\fP.  Must precede other arguments on the command line.
.SH FILES
.nf
/proc	location of the proc file system
.fi
.SH "KNOWN BUGS"
Killing by file only works for executables that are kept open during
execution, i.e. impure executables can't be killed this way.
.PP
Be warned that typing \fBkillall\fP \fIname\fP may not have the desired
effect on non-Linux systems, especially when done by a privileged
user.
.PP
\fBkillall \-w\fP doesn't detect if a process disappears and is replaced by
a new process with the same PID between scans.
.SH AUTHORS
Werner Almesberger <Werner.Almesberger@epfl.ch> wrote the original version
of psmisc.  Since version 20 Craig Small <csmall@small.dropbear.id.au> 
can be blamed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR kill (1), fuser (1), pgrep (1), pidof (1), ps (1), kill (2)
.\"{{{}}}
