.TH QUOTA 1
.SH NAME
quota \- display disk usage and limits
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B quota
[
.B -F
.I format-name
] [
.BR -guvs \ |
.B q
]
.br
.B quota
[
.B -F
.I format-name
] [
.BR -uvs \ |
.B q
]
.I user
.br
.B quota
[
.B -F
.I format-name
] [
.BR -gvs \ |
.B q
]
.I group
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B quota
displays users' disk usage and limits.
By default only the user quotas are printed.
.PP
.B quota
reports the quotas of all the filesystems listed in
.BR /etc/mtab .
For filesystems that are NFS-mounted a call to the rpc.rquotad on
the server machine is performed to get the information.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-F \f2format-name\f1
Show quota for specified format (ie. don't perform format autodetection).
Possible format names are:
.B vfsold
(version 1 quota),
.B vfsv0
(version 2 quota),
.B rpc
(quota over NFS),
.B xfs
(quota on XFS filesystem)
.TP
.B \-g
Print group quotas for the group 
of which the user is a member.
The optional
.TP
.B \-u
flag is equivalent to the default.
.TP
.B \-v
will display quotas on filesystems
where no storage is allocated.
.TP
.B \-s
flag will make
.BR quota (1)
try to choose units for showing limits, used space and used inodes.
.TP
.B \-q
Print a more terse message,
containing only information
on filesystems where usage is over quota.
.LP
Specifying both
.B \-g
and
.B \-u
displays both the user quotas and the group quotas (for
the user).
.LP
Only the super-user may use the
.B \-u
flag and the optional
.B user
argument to view the limits of other users.
Non-super-users can use the the
.B \-g
flag and optional
.B group
argument to view only the limits of groups of which they are members.
.LP
The
.B \-q
flag takes precedence over the
.B \-v
flag.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If
.B quota
exits with a non-zero status, one or more filesystems
are over quota.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B aquota.user " or " aquota.group
quota file at the filesystem root (version 2 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP 20
.B quota.user " or " quota.group
quota file at the filesystem root (version 1 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B /etc/mtab
default filesystems
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR quotactl (2),
.BR fstab (5),
.BR edquota (8),
.BR quotacheck (8),
.BR quotaon (8),
.BR repquota (8)
