.\" @(#)setleds.1 1.0 940924 aeb
.TH SETLEDS 1 "24 Sep 1994"
.SH NAME
setleds \- set the keyboard leds
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B setleds
.RI [ "-v" "] [" "-L" "] [" "-D" "] [" "-F" ]
.RI [ {+|-}num "] [" {+|-}caps "] [" {+|-}scroll ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "setleds command" "" "\fLsetleds\fR command"  
.LP
.B Setleds
reports and changes the led flag settings of a VT
(namely NumLock, CapsLock and ScrollLock).
Without arguments,
.B setleds
prints the current settings.
With arguments, it sets or clears the indicated flags
(and leaves the others unchanged). The settings before
and after the change are reported if the -v flag is given.
.LP
The led flag settings are specific for each VT (and the VT
corresponding to stdin is used).
.LP
By default (or with option -F),
.B setleds
will only change the VT flags (and their setting may be
reflected by the keyboard leds).
.LP
With option -D,
.B setleds
will change both the VT flags and their default settings
(so that a subsequent reset will not undo the change).
This might be useful for people who always want to have numlock set.
.LP
With option -L,
.B setleds
will not touch the VT flags, but only change the leds.
From this moment on, the leds will no longer reflect the VT flags
(but display whatever is put into them). The command
.B "setleds -L"
(without further arguments) will restore the situation in which
the leds reflect the VT flags.
.LP
One might use
.B setleds
in /etc/rc to define the initial and default state of NumLock,
e.g. by
.br
.in +5m
INITTY=/dev/tty[1-8]
.br
for tty in $INITTY; do
.br
.in +5m
setleds -D +num < $tty
.br
.in -5m
done
.in -5m
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-num \+num
Clear or set NumLock.
(At present, the NumLock setting influences the
interpretation of keypad keys.
Pressing the NumLock key complements the NumLock setting.)
.TP
\-caps \+caps
Clear or set CapsLock.
(At present, the CapsLock setting complements the Shift key
when applied to letters.
Pressing the CapsLock key complements the CapsLock setting.)
.TP
\-scroll \+scroll
Clear or set ScrollLock.
(At present, pressing the ScrollLock key (or ^S/^Q) stops/starts
console output.)
.SH "BUGS"
In keyboard application mode the NumLock key does not
influence the NumLock flag setting.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR loadkeys (1)

