.\" Copyright 1996-2003 Glyph & Cog, LLC
.TH xpdf 1 "10 October 2003"
.SH NAME
xpdf \- Portable Document Format (PDF) file viewer for X (version 2.03)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xpdf
[options]
.RI [ PDF-file
.RI [ page " | +" dest ]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Xpdf
is a viewer for Portable Document Format (PDF) files.  (These are also
sometimes also called \'Acrobat' files, from the name of Adobe's PDF
software.)  Xpdf runs under the X Window System on UNIX, VMS, and
OS/2.
.PP
To run xpdf, simply type:
.PP
.RS
xpdf file.pdf
.RE
.PP
where
.I file.pdf
is your PDF file.  The file name can be followed by a number
specifying the page which should be displayed first, e.g.:
.PP
.RS
xpdf file.pdf 18
.RE
.PP
You can also give a named destination, prefixed with \'+' in place of
the page number.
.PP
You can also start xpdf without opening any files:
.PP
.RS
xpdf
.RE
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Xpdf reads a configuration file at startup.  It first tries to find
the user's private config file, ~/.xpdfrc.  If that doesn't exist, it
looks for a system-wide config file, typically /etc/xpdfrc
(but this location can be changed when xpdf is built).  See the
.BR xpdfrc (5)
man page for details.
.SH OPTIONS
Many of the following options can be set with configuration file
commands or X resources.  These are listed in square brackets with the
description of the corresponding command line option.
.TP
.BI \-g " geometry"
Set the initial window geometry.
.RB ( \-geometry
is equivalent.)
.RB "[X resource: " xpdf.geometry ]
.TP
.BI \-title " title"
Set the window title.  By default, the title will be "xpdf: foo.pdf".
.RB "[X resource: " xpdf.title ]
.TP
.B \-cmap
Install a private colormap.  This is ignored on TrueColor visuals.
.RB "[X resource: " xpdf.installCmap ]
.TP
.BI \-rgb " number"
Set the size of largest RGB cube xpdf will try to allocate.  The
default is 5 (for a 5x5x5 cube); set to a smaller number to conserve
color table entries.  This is ignored with private colormaps and on
TrueColor visuals.
.RB "[X resource: " xpdf.rgbCubeSize ]
.TP
.B \-rv
Set reverse video mode.  This reverses the colors of everything except
images.  It may not always produce great results for PDF files which
do weird things with color.  This also causes the paper color to
default to black.
.RB "[X resource: " xpdf.reverseVideo ]
.TP
.BI \-papercolor " color"
Set the "paper color", i.e., the background of the page display.  This
will not work too well with PDF files that do things like filling in
white behind the text.
.RB "[X resource: " xpdf.paperColor ]
.TP
.BI \-z " zoom"
Set the initial zoom factor.  A number specifies a zoom percentage,
where 100 means 72 dpi.You may also specify \'page', to fit the page
to the window size, or \'width', to fit the page width to the window
width.
.RB "[config file: " initialZoom "; or X resource: " xpdf.initialZoom ]
.TP
.BI \-t1lib " font-type"
Set the type of font rendering for t1lib (the Type 1 rasterizer) to
use.  Options are \'none' (don't use t1lib at all), \'plain' (use
non-anti-aliased fonts), \'low' or \'high' (use low-level or
high-level anti-aliased fonts).
.RB "[config file: " t1libControl ]
.TP
.BI \-freetype " font-type"
Set the type of font rendering for FreeType (the TrueType rasterizer)
to use.  Options are \'none' (don't use FreeType at all), \'plain'
(use non-anti-aliased fonts), \'low' or \'high' (use anti-aliased
fonts; these two are identical).
.RB "[config file: " freetypeControl ]
.TP
.BI \-ps " PS-file"
Set the default file name for PostScript output.  This can also be of
the form \'|command' to pipe the PostScript through a command.
.RB "[config file: " psFile ]
.TP
.BI \-paper " size"
Set the paper size to one of "letter", "legal", "A4", or "A3".  This
can also be set to "match", which will set the paper size to match the
size specified in the PDF file.
.RB "[config file: " psPaperSize ]
.TP
.BI \-paperw " size"
Set the paper width, in points.
.RB "[config file: " psPaperSize ]
.TP
.BI \-paperh " size"
Set the paper height, in points.
.RB "[config file: " psPaperSize ]
.TP
.B \-level1
Generate Level 1 PostScript.  The resulting PostScript files will be
significantly larger (if they contain images), but will print on Level
1 printers.  This also converts all images to black and white.
.RB "[config file: " psLevel ]
.TP
.BI \-enc " encoding-name"
Sets the encoding to use for text output.  The
.I encoding\-name
must be defined with the unicodeMap command (see
.BR xpdfrc (5)).
This defaults to "Latin1" (which is a built-in encoding).
.RB "[config file: " textEncoding ]
.TP
.BI \-eol " unix | dos | mac"
Sets the end-of-line convention to use for text output.
.RB "[config file: " textEOL ]
.TP
.BI \-opw " password"
Specify the owner password for the PDF file.  Providing this will
bypass all security restrictions.
.TP
.BI \-upw " password"
Specify the user password for the PDF file.
.TP
.B \-fullscreen
Open xpdf in a full-screen mode, useful for presentations.  You may
also want to specify '-bg black' (or similar) with this.  (There is
currently no way to switch between window and full-screen modes on the
fly.)
.TP
.BI \-remote " name"
Start/contact xpdf remote server with specified name (see the
.B "REMOTE SERVER MODE"
section below).
.TP
.B \-reload
Reload xpdf remote server window (with -remote only).
.TP
.B \-raise
Raise xpdf remote server window (with -remote only).
.TP
.B \-quit
Kill xpdf remote server (with -remote only).
.TP
.B \-cmd
Print commands as they're executed (useful for debugging).
.RB "[config file: " printCommands ]
.TP
.B \-q
Don't print any messages or errors.
.RB "[config file: " errQuiet ]
.TP
.BI \-cfg " config-file"
Read
.I config-file
in place of ~/.xpdfrc or the system-wide config file.
.TP
.B \-v
Print copyright and version information.
.TP
.B \-h
Print usage information.
.RB ( \-help
and
.B \-\-help
are equivalent.)
.PP
Several other standard X options and resources will work as expected:
.TP
.BI \-display " display"
.RB "[X resource: " xpdf.display ]
.TP
.BI \-fg " color"
.RB ( \-foreground
is equivalent.)
.RB "[X resource: " xpdf*Foreground ]
.TP
.BI \-bg " color"
.RB ( \-background
is equivalent.)
.RB "[X resource: " xpdf*Background ]
.TP
.BI \-font " font"
.RB ( \-fn
is equivalent.)
.RB "[X resource: " xpdf*fontList ]
.PP
The color and font options only affect the user interface elements,
not the PDF display (the \'paper').
.PP
The following X resources do not have command line option equivalents:
.TP
.B xpdf.viKeys
Enables the \'h', \'l', \'k' and \'j' keys for left, right, up, and
down scrolling.
.SH CONTROLS
.SS On-screen controls, at the bottom of the xpdf window
.TP
.B "left/right arrow buttons"
Move to the previous/next page.
.TP
.B "double left/right arrow buttons"
Move backward or forward by ten pages.
.TP
.B "dashed left/right arrow buttons"
Move backward or forward along the history path.
.TP
.B "\'Page' entry box"
Move to a specific page number.  Click in the box to activate it, type
the page number, then hit return.
.TP
.B "zoom popup menu"
Change the zoom factor (see the description of the -z option above).
.TP
.B "binoculars button"
Find a text string.
.TP
.B "print button"
Bring up a dialog for generating a PostScript file.  The dialog has
options to set the pages to be printed and the PostScript file name.
The file name can be \'-' for stdout or \'|command' to pipe the
PostScript through a command, e.g., \'|lpr'.
.TP
.B "\'?' button"
Bring up the \'about xpdf' window.
.TP
.B "link info"
The space between the \'?' and \'Quit' buttons is used to show the URL
or external file name when the mouse is over a link.
.TP
.B "\'Quit' button"
Quit xpdf.
.PP
.SS Menu
Pressing the right mouse button will post a popup menu with the
following commands:
.TP
.B "Open..."
Open a new PDF file via a file requester.
.TP
.B "Open in new window..."
Create a new window and open a new PDF file via a file requester.
.TP
.B "Reload"
Reload the current PDF file.  Note that Xpdf will reload the file
automatically (on a page change or redraw) if it has changed since it
was last loaded.
.TP
.B "Save as..."
Save the current file via a file requester.
.TP
.B "Rotate counterclockwise"
Rotate the page 90 degrees counterclockwise.
.TP
.B "Rotate clockwise"
Rotate the page 90 degrees clockwise.  The two rotate commands are
intended primarily for PDF files where the rotation isn't correctly
specified in the file, but they're also useful if your X server
doesn't support font rotation.
.TP
.B "Close"
Close the current window.  If this is the only open window, the
document is closed, but the window is left open (i.e., this menu
command won't quit xpdf).
.TP
.B "Quit"
Quit xpdf.
.PP
.SS Outline
If the PDF contains an outline (a.k.a., bookmarks), there will be an
outline pane on the left side of the window.  The width of the outline
pane is adjustable with a vertical split bar via the knob near its
bottom end.
.PP
.SS Text selection
Dragging the mouse with the left button held down will highlight an
arbitrary rectangle.  Any text inside this rectangle will be copied to
the X selection buffer.
.PP
.SS Links
Clicking on a hyperlink will jump to the link's destination.  A link
to another PDF document will make xpdf load that document.  A
\'launch' link to an executable program will display a dialog, and if
you click \'ok', execute the program.  URL links call an external
command (see the
.B WEB BROWSERS
section below).
.PP
.SS Panning
Dragging the mouse with the middle button held down pans the window.
.PP
.SS Key bindings
.TP
.B o
Open a new PDF file via a file requester.
.TP
.B r
Reload the current PDF file.  Note that Xpdf will reload the file
automatically (on a page change or redraw) if it has changed since it
was last loaded.
.TP
.B control-L
Redraw the current page.
.TP
.B control-W
Close the current window.
.TP
.B f or control-F
Find a text string.
.TP
.B control-G
Find next occurrence.
.TP
.B control-P
Print.
.TP
.B n
Move to the next page.  Scrolls to the top of the page, unless scroll
lock is turned on.
.TP
.B p
Move to the previous page.  Scrolls to the top of the page, unless
scroll lock is turned on.
.TP
.BR <Space> " or " <PageDown> " or " <Next>
Scroll down on the current page; if already at bottom, move to next
page.
.TP
.BR <Backspace> " or " <Delete> " or " <PageUp> " or " <Previous>
Scroll up on the current page; if already at top, move to previous
page.
.TP
.B v
Move forward along the history path.
.TP
.B b
Move backward along the history path.
.TP
.B <Home>
Scroll to top of current page.
.TP
.B <End>
Scroll to bottom of current page.
.TP
.B control-<Home>
Scroll to first page of document.
.TP
.B control-<End>
Scroll to last page of document.
.TP
.B arrows
Scroll the current page.
.TP
.B g
Activate the page number text field ("goto page").
.TP
.B 0
Set the zoom factor to zero (72 dpi).
.TP
.B +
Zoom in (increment the zoom factor by 1).
.TP
.B -
Zoom out (decrement the zoom factor by 1).
.TP
.B z
Set the zoom factor to 'page' (fit page to window).
.TP
.B w
Set the zoom factor to 'width' (fit page width to window).
.TP
.B q
Quit xpdf.
.SH "WEB BROWSERS"
If you want to run xpdf automatically from netscape or mosaic (and
probably other browsers) when you click on a link to a PDF file, you
need to edit (or create) the files
.I .mime.types
and
.I .mailcap
in your home directory.  In
.I .mime.types
add the line:
.PP
.RS
application/pdf pdf
.RE
.PP
In
.I .mailcap
add the lines:
.PP
.RS
# Use xpdf to view PDF files.
.RE
.RS
application/pdf; xpdf -q %s
.RE
.PP
Make sure that xpdf is on your executable search path.
.PP
When you click on a URL link in a PDF file, xpdf will execute the
command specified by the urlCommand config file option, replacing an
occurrence of \'%s' with the URL.  For example, to call netscape with
the URL, add this line to your config file:
.PP
.RS
urlCommand "netscape -remote 'openURL(%s)'"
.RE
.SH "REMOTE SERVER MODE"
Xpdf can be started in remote server mode by specifying a server name
(in addition to the file name and page number).  For example:
.PP
.RS
xpdf -remote myServer file.pdf
.RE
.PP
If there is currently no xpdf running in server mode with the name
\'myServer', a new xpdf window will be opened.  If another command:
.PP
.RS
xpdf -remote myServer another.pdf 9
.RE
.PP
is issued, a new copy of xpdf will not be started.  Instead, the first
xpdf (the server) will load
.I another.pdf
and display page nine.  If the file name is the same:
.PP
.RS
xpdf -remote myServer another.pdf 4
.RE
.PP
the xpdf server will simply display the specified page.
.PP
The -raise option tells the server to raise its window; it can be
specified with or without a file name and page number.
.PP
The -quit option tells the server to close its window and exit.
.SH EXIT CODES
The Xpdf tools use the following exit codes:
.TP
0
No error.
.TP
1
Error opening a PDF file.
.TP
2
Error opening an output file.
.TP
3
Error related to PDF permissions.
.TP
99
Other error.
.SH AUTHOR
The xpdf software and documentation are copyright 1996-2003 Glyph &
Cog, LLC.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pdftops (1),
.BR pdftotext (1),
.BR pdfinfo (1),
.BR pdffonts (1),
.BR pdftopbm (1),
.BR pdfimages (1),
.BR xpdfrc (5)
.br
.B http://www.foolabs.com/xpdf/
