.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2001 Thorsten Kukuk
.\" This file is part of the yp-tools.
.\" Author: Thorsten Kukuk <kukuk@suse.de>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 as
.\"  published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
.\" Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.TH yppasswd 1 "May 1998" "YP Tools 2.8"
.SH NAME
yppasswd, ypchfn, ypchsh \- change your password in the NIS database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "yppasswd [-f] [-l] [-p] [user]"
.br
.B "ypchfn [user]"
.br
.B "ypchsh [user]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The standard
.BR passwd (1),
.BR chfn (1)
and
.BR chsh (1)
cannot be used under Linux to change the users NIS password, shell and GECOS
information, because they only modify the password file on the local host.
For changing the NIS information, they are replaced by their NIS
counterparts,
.BR yppasswd ,
.B ypchfn
and
.BR ypchsh .
.P
These commands are the same program, linked to different names.
Using the command line switches, you can choose whether to update your
password
.BR \-p ,
your login shell
.BR \-l ,
or your GECOS field
.BR \-f ,
or a combination of them.
.B yppasswd
implies the
.B \-p
option, if no other option is given. If you use the
.B \-f
or
.B \-l
option, you also need to add the
.B \-p
flag.
.B ypchfn
implies the
.B \-f
option, and
.B ypchsh
.BR \-l .
.P
When invoked without the
.I user
argument, the account information for the invoking user will be updated,
otherwise that of
.I user
will be updated. This option is only available to the super-user. If the
yppasswdd daemon on the server supports it, you can give the root password
of the server instead of the users [old] password.
.P
All tools will first prompt the user for the current NIS password needed
for authentication with the
.BR yppasswdd (8)
daemon. Subsequently, the
program prompts for the updated information:
.\"
.\"
.IP "\fByppasswd\fP or \fB-l\fP"
Change the user's NIS password.	The user is prompted for the new password.
While typing the password, echoing is turned off, so the password does not
appear on the screen. An empty password is rejected, as are passwords shorter
than six characters. The user will then be requested to retype the
password to make sure it wasn't	misspelled the first time.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\fBypchsh\fP or \fB-l\fP"
Change the user's login shell. The user is prompted for a new shell,
offering the old one as default:
.IP
.in +2n
.ft B
.nf
Login shell [/bin/sh]: _
.fi
.ft
.in
.IP
To accept the default, simply press return. To clear the shell field in
your
.BR passwd (5)
file entry (so that the system's default shell is selected),
enter the string
.IR none .
.\"
.\"
.IP "\fBypchfn\fP or \fB-f\fP"
Change the user's full name and related information. Traditionally, some
applications expect the GECOS field (field 4) of the
.BR passwd (5)
file to
contain the user's real name (as opposed to the login name) plus some
additional information like the office phone number. This information is
displayed by
.BR finger (1)
and probably some other tools, too.
.IP
When setting the full name,
.B ypchfn
displays the following prompts, with the defaults in brackets:
.IP
.in +2n
.ft B
.nf
Name [Joe Doe]:
Location [2nd floor, bldg 34]:
Office Phone [12345]:
Home Phone []:
.fi
.ft
.in
.IP
To accept a default, simply press return. To clear a field, enter the string
.IR none .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chfn (1),
.BR chsh (1),
.BR finger (1),
.BR passwd (5),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR ypcat (1),
.BR yppasswdd (8),
.BR ypserv (8),
.BR ypwhich (1)
.LP
.SH AUTHOR
.B yppasswd
is part of the
.B yp-tools
package, which was written by Thorsten Kukuk <kukuk@suse.de>.
